# 16.1 Virtual Class: Project 2

## Overview

In this class, students will outline their project presentations and complete work on their projects.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will have done the following:

* Outlined their project presentation.

* Progressed towards finalizing the MVP of their project.

## Instructor Notes

* There is no classroom instruction today.

* This is the last day students have to work on their projects in class.

* Your students' success after the boot camp depends on the quality of their projects. The presentation portion of the project factors strongly into the overall quality. Ultimately, students need to think about how to communicate the development process of their apps if they hope to impress interviewers with their experience.

* Share the [project presentation template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10QaO9KH8HtUXj__81ve0SZcpO5DbMbqqQr4iPpbwKks/edit?usp=sharing) with students to help them prepare for their presentations in the next class. Inform students that they will have 10 minutes to present and must be prepared to answer questions.

* Students must have a deployed project by presentation day, so encourage students to deploy their projects during class today. Deployed projects can always be updated, so it is recommended that students deploy early on and update their live version with every new feature.

* Make sure that students spend at least half an hour during class outlining their presentations.

* Prioritize working with groups that might be at risk of failure&mdash;in other words, unable to deploy a functional application.

## Time Tracker

| Start  | #   | Activity Name                     | Duration |
| ------ | --- | ----------------------------      | -------- |
| 6:30PM | 0   | Office Hours                      | 0:30     |
| 7:00PM | 1   | Instructor Do: Welcome            | 0:05     |
| 7:05PM | 2   | Student Do: Outline Presentations | 0:30     |
| 7:35PM | 3   | Student Do: Project Work          | 1:25     |
| 9:00PM | 4   | End                               | N/A      |

---

## Class Instructions

### 1. Instructor Do: Welcome (5 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Inform them that today is the last class time to work on group projects. They will also start outlining their project presentations in preparation for the next class.

* Answer any questions before proceeding.

### 2. Student Do: Outline Presentations (30 min)

* Announce that students have the next half hour to outline their presentations. Share the [project presentation template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10QaO9KH8HtUXj__81ve0SZcpO5DbMbqqQr4iPpbwKks/edit?usp=sharing) with them.

* They should consider the following aspects:

  * The structure of their presentation.

  * The key messages they need to show.

  * The details that they should avoid reviewing (they only have 10 minutes to talk!)

* Explain that a project presentation should flow like a story. Their narrative should open on a conflict, hint at a potential resolution for that problem, depict the steps taken to resolve the issue, and finally end on the resolution of the conflict with an eye toward the future. In other words, they should answer the following questions during their presentation:

  * What problem does their app focus on?

  * How does their app solve this problem at a high-level?

  * What steps did they take to build the app?

* Tell students that it's important to show their app running and solving the problem that began this story.

* While the groups organize their presentations, offer to answer any questions about presentation day.

* About 10 minutes in, make sure that students aren't coding. If it seems like they are, gently ask how they're progressing so far with their presentation outline.

### 3. Student Do: Project Work (85 min)

* Direct students to continue to work with their groups on their projects while instructional staff make themselves available for assistance.

* Visit each group and answer any questions they might have about coding or presenting their app.

* Some students might feel nervous as the presentation deadline approaches. Reassure them that they have solid project ideas and that they'll be fine as long as they prepare for their presentation.

* A few groups might not seem poised to finish their apps on time. Tell them to drop any undeveloped and unnecessary features. Even if they can't meet their proposed goal, they should still present a functional app in the next class. Let them know that they can talk about the dropped features as planned updates.

* Answer any questions before ending class.

### 4. End

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete this [anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17).

---
© 2021 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
