# 16.2 Virtual Class: Project 02

## Overview

In this class, students will present their projects to their peers.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will have done the following:

* Demonstrated deployed projects.

* Explained the technical implementation of their projects.

* Described their individual roles and contributions to their projects.

## Instructor Notes

* Congratulate your class! This is a major milestone in their journey.

* Project presentations are a rare opportunity for students to practice speaking about technical topics in front of an audience of peers.

* Limit presentations to 10 minutes: 7 to 8 minutes for the presentation itself, followed by 2 to 3 minutes for Q&A. This will ensure that every group presents and allow padding for transitions between groups.

* Prior to class, prepare a list of questions to ask each group to encourage discussion.

* Prior to class, and during presentations if necessary, collaborate with your TAs to prepare a slide deck of superlative awards for groups. Refer to this [example of a superlative award slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fJGzsclaQ5TKBk3EnL7Gc-bg1ijSGM6_oB1gvpKYnZE/edit?usp=sharing).

* Remind students that this module's career connection consists of updating their portfolio with this project as well as updating their GitHub profile, resume, and LinkedIn profile.

## Office Hours

Use Office Hours to assist with any last minute debugging and deployment issues, or providing feedback on presentations.

## Time Tracker

| Start  | #   | Activity Name                  | Duration |
| ------ | --- | ----------------------------   | -------- |
| 6:30PM | 0   | Office Hours                   | 0:30     |
| 7:00PM | 1   | Instructor Do: Welcome         | 0:05     |
| 7:05PM | 2   | Student Do: Presentations      | 1:45     |
| 8:50PM | 3   | Recap & Promote Resources      | 0:05     |
| 8:55PM | 4   | Introduce Upcoming Challenge   | 0:05     |
| 9:00PM | 5   | End                            | N/A      |

---

## Class Instructions

### 1. Instructor Do: Welcome (5 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Address any last-minute questions before presentations.

### 2. Student Do: Presentations

* Project groups will have 10 minutes to present their project and have a brief Q&A.

* If there aren't many questions, ask the group to explain how they built their application and encourage them to speak technically about some of their code.

* When all the presentations are done, present superlative awards and congratulate each group for accomplishing this huge milestone!

### 3. Recap & Promote Additional Resources (5 min)

* Direct students to the additional resources available to them:

  * Reflection and Retrieval

  * Career Connection

  * Dessert Menu

### 4. Introduce Upcoming Challenge (5 min)

* The next module is very different from previous modules. Likewise, the Challenge for the next module is also very different. Instead of a coding activity, it involves writing a GitHub gist explaining regex. Let students know you will go over this more in detail in the next module.

* Open the [17-CS/02-Challenge/README.md](../../01-Class-Content/17-CS/02-Challenge/README.md) and review the following:

  * This Challenge involves creating a gist on GitHub that will be a tutorial on regex.

  * This challenge is different from any other challenge you've done so far. That's because we want you to start thinking like a developer. A developer writes code, but they also write ABOUT code.

  * You'll need to clone the starter code and modify the contents to create your tutorial on regex. The starter code is a template with a title, introductory paragraph, summary, and table of contents. The table of contents should link to sections of the tutorial that describe the functionality of each component in the regex.

  * Although creating a gist is an easy, straight-forward task, we will cover it next week. It functions just like a repository, and you’ll use Markdown to create it, which you already know how to do! Gists can include code, images, links, and anything else you can include in a README.

* Navigate to `01-Class-Content/17-CS/02-Challenge/Develop/gist-template.md` in your IDE and demonstrate the following:

  * The tutorial you create will be written in Markdown. To get you started, a template has been provided.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ What are we learning?

  * 🙋 We are learning to describe our problem-solving process in writing! It will take practice to clearly put the thinking process in writing.

  * ☝️ How does this project build on or extend previously learned material?

  * 🙋 We have been using our problem-solving skills and critical thinking skills all throughout this boot camp. Now we are putting that into writing and learning how to communicate those thinking processes to others.

  * ☝️ How does this project relate to your career goals?

  * 🙋 Whether it is in writing (such as in a tech blog) or in speech (such as during a technical interview), the ability to clearly explain difficult technical concepts is an important skill to have as a developer. You should be able to clearly explain and communicate technical knowledge, whether it is talking about a project with your team at work or giving a presentation of your product in front of executives.

* Answer any questions before ending class.

### 5. End

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete this [anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17).

---
© 2022 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand.  Confidential and Proprietary.  All Rights Reserved.
