# 07.1 Virtual Class: Project 01

## Overview

In this class, students will learn about agile project management and create GitHub issues and projects in preparation for Project 01.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will be able to:

* Explain agile software development.

* Explain minimum viable product (MVP) in relation to agile software development.

* Create GitHub issues and projects.

* Write user stories.

* Explain scrum and standing meetings.

* Submit a project proposal for feedback.

## Instructor Notes

* Determine project groups prior to class. Assign three students per group: one advanced, one average, one struggling. **DO NOT allow students to work alone or in pairs.** Group projects are one of the few opportunities for students to work collaboratively.

* If students complain about group configurations, remind them of the following:

  * In the real world, you don't get to choose your coworkers.

  * Working collaboratively is an important skill to acquire as a developer.

* Students will be allowed to form their own groups for the Project 03.

* There are occasional circumstances, such as an illness or a personal emergency, which might force a student to complete a group project on their own. In these circumstances, as the instructor, you will meet with the student and SSM to determine if completing the project independently is the best path forward. If it is, you will share adjusted project requirements and a grading rubric with the student.

* The first 50 minutes of class contains a lecture on agile software development. Students then break into groups to brainstorm ideas and prepare user stories and wireframes. Use the time after break to meet with each team to discuss their project idea, and course correct as you see fit.

* The Instructor Demo activities ask you to create a project repository. You can create one on-the-fly or create one in advance.

## Time Tracker

| Start  | #   | Activity Name                               | Duration |
|---     |---  |---                                          |---       |
| 6:30PM | 0   | Office Hours                                | 0:30     |
| 7:00PM | 1   | Instructor Do: Agile                        | 0:10     |
| 7:10PM | 2   | Instructor Demo: GitHub Issues              | 0:05     |
| 7:15PM | 3   | Student Do: User Stories                    | 0:05     |
| 7:20PM | 4   | Instructor Do: Agile, Continued             | 0:05     |
| 7:25PM | 5   | Instructor Demo: GitHub Projects            | 0:05     |
| 7:30PM | 6   | Student Do: GitHub Projects                 | 0:10     |
| 7:40PM | 7   | Instructor Do: Agile, Continued             | 0:10     |
| 7:50PM | 8   | Student Do: Project Work                    | 1:05     |
| 8:55PM | 9   | Recap                                       | 0:05     |
| 9:00PM | 10  | End                                         | N/A      |

---

## Class Instructions

### 1. Instructor Do: Agile (10 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Open the [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1joxHq65MHgtCrD9ceXc2NZn2rxkPDZ2jkh4xWxMfxIk/edit?usp=sharing) and follow these prompts on their corresponding slides:

	* **What is a project?**: We're about to begin our first project. But first, what is a project?

	* **Project**: A project is "any undertaking, carried out individually or collaboratively and possibly involving research or design, that is carefully planned (usually by a project team) to achieve a particular aim." For more information, refer to the [Wikipedia article on Project](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project).

	* **How do we carefully plan a project?**

	* **Project Management**: Project management is the practice of initiating, planning, executing, controlling, and closing the work of a team to achieve specific goals and meet specific success criteria at the specified time. The primary challenge of project management is to achieve all of the project goals within the given constraints. For more information, refer to the [Wikipedia article on project management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_management).

	* **What is the definition of "agile"?**: In general, what does it mean to be agile?

	* **agile [ aj-uhl, -ahyl ]**: One of the definitions of "agile" is "quick and well-coordinated in movement."

	* **What is agile software development?**: What do we think "agile" means in terms of software development?

	* **Agile software development**: Agile software development is an iterative approach to developing software. Teams deliver value to their customers more quickly by working incrementally rather than working towards a big launch. Teams improve and respond to change by continuously evaluating project plans, requirements, and user needs.

	* **What is iterative development?**: What is iteration? If iteration is the repetition of a process in order to generate a sequence of outcomes, what is iterative development?

	* **Iterative and Incremental Development**: In an iterative approach to development, working software is the primary measure of progress. Our goal is to build functional applications, even if they are very simple, like a skateboard. If we set out to build a sports car, we may never get there and we will have unhappy customers along the way.

	* **What is an MVP?**: It is not most valuable player.

	* **Minimum Viable Product**: A minimum viable product is a product with just enough features to satisfy early customers and provide feedback for future product development. For more information, refer to the [Wikipedia article on MVP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_viable_product).

	* **How do we determine our MVP?**: How do we know what our minimum viable product is?

	* **Determining a Minimum Viable Product**: There are a lot of approaches to defining a minimum viable product, but we can simplify it to three questions: 1) who is your audience?; 2) what is the problem that the product will address?; 3) how does the product solve that problem?

	* **What is a user story?**

	* **User stories**: In software development and product management, a user story is an informal, plain-language description of one or more features of a software system. User stories are often written from the perspective of an end user or user of a system. For more information, see the [Wikipedia article on user story](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_story).

	* **What is acceptance criteria?**

	* **Acceptance criteria**: Acceptance criteria define the boundaries of a user story and are used to confirm when a story is completed and working as intended. For more information, refer to the [Wikipedia article on acceptance criteria](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_story#Acceptance_criteria).

	* **What is a GitHub issue?**

	* **GitHub Issues**: Use issues to track ideas, enhancements, tasks, or bugs for work on GitHub.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 2. Instructor Demo: GitHub Issues (5 min)

* Navigate to [GitHub.com](https://github.com) in your browser and demonstrate the following:

  * We start by creating a new repository for our project.

  * After creating our project repository, we see an Issues tab next to the Code tab.

  * If we navigate to the Issues tab, we will see any open issues.

  * If we click the New Issue button, we are routed to a form where we can create a new issue.

  * When we create an issue, we want to give it a descriptive and accurate title:

		```md
		See referral traffic for inbound analysis
		```

  * Then we add the user story:

		```md
		AS A marketing analyst
		I WANT to see referral traffic
		SO THAT I can adapt strategy to convert more leads
		```

  * We also want to add acceptance criteria:

		```md
		GIVEN I am an authenticated user
		WHEN I request a range of referral traffic
		THEN a chart is generated
		```

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ What is the difference between user stories and issues?

  * 🙋 User stories are informal descriptions of one or more features ofan app, whereas issues are our way of tracking features, tasks, bugs, or other improvements.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 3. Student Do: User Stories (5 min)

* Tell students that you will now do a short activity that lets them practice writing a user story.

* Open the [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1joxHq65MHgtCrD9ceXc2NZn2rxkPDZ2jkh4xWxMfxIk/edit?usp=sharing) and direct students to follow the slide prompt to write a user story for one of the following prompts:

  * A web application that keeps track of a company’s payroll.

  * A mobile application that finds nearby restaurants.

  * A reminder app that keeps track of important tasks.

* Upon completion, ask a few students to name the prompt they chose and describe the user story.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 4. Instructor Do: Agile, Continued (5 min)

* Tell students that you will transition to talking about GitHub projects, beginning with introducing a type of project management tool called a Kanban board.

* Open the [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1joxHq65MHgtCrD9ceXc2NZn2rxkPDZ2jkh4xWxMfxIk/edit?usp=sharing) and follow these prompts with their corresponding slides:

  * **What is Kanban?**:

  * **Kanban**: Kanban is a project management tool that visualizes work through cards representing user stories or issues. In their simplest form, Kanban boards are broken into three columns: To Do, In Progress, and Done. Cards begin in the To Do column and are moved from left to right as work is started and completed.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 5. Instructor Demo: GitHub Projects (5 min)

* Navigate to [GitHub.com](https://github.com) in your browser and demonstrate the following:

  * In our project repository, we can set up tracking for our project by selecting the Projects tab and clicking the "New project" button.

  * Here, we'll give the project board a name and select the Basic Kanban template. We will keep the Visibility as Private and link our project repository. When we're done, we'll select the "Create project" button.

  * Now we can add an issue to our board by clicking "+ Add cards" in the top right to add an existing issue as a card to our project.

  * When the status of a card changes, we update the board by dragging the card into its appropriate column.

  * Remember that you can also create an issue by navigating to the Issues tab. If you decide to add it to a project, you can select the project that the issue is associated with.

* Ask the class the following question(s) and call on students for the corresponding answer(s):

  * ☝️ Why do we use Kanban boards to track the status of our project?

  * 🙋 Kanban boards help you and your team visualize the status of the project. Another advantage of Kanban is that it's much less complex to manage than many other popular methods of project management.

  * Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 6. Student Do: GitHub Projects (10 min)

* Tell students that you will now walk them through creating a project in GitHub.

* Open the [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1joxHq65MHgtCrD9ceXc2NZn2rxkPDZ2jkh4xWxMfxIk/edit?usp=sharing) and direct students to follow the slide prompts to create a GitHub project:

  * Navigate to GitHub and create a repository.

  * Create a new Github project for your repository.

  * Create a card in the "To do" column, then move it to "In progress".

  * Create a GitHub issue and attach it to your GitHub project.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 7. Instructor Do: Agile, Continued (10 min)

* Tell students that you will introduce some of the human-collaboration tools that are used in agile software development.

* Open the [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1joxHq65MHgtCrD9ceXc2NZn2rxkPDZ2jkh4xWxMfxIk/edit?usp=sharing) and follow these prompts with their corresponding slides:

  * **What is daily scrum?**:

  * **Stand-Up Meetings**: Stand-up meetings are used to hold teams accountable to each other. Team members make commitments to work on aspects of the project and report out progress. Stand-up meetings are useful in identifying issues as they arise and developing plans to resolve them. Typically, each team member answers three questions during stand-up: 1) What was accomplished?; 2) What are your goals?; 3) Are there any obstacles to achieving your goals? For more information, refer to the [Wikipedia article on stand-up meeting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stand-up_meeting).

  * **Get Professional**: Remember, projects are your portfolio pieces. Use Project Weeks as an opportunity to push yourself and prove your knowledge. Keep you MVP simple and add features as you go to avoid feature creep.

  * **Project Requirements**

  * **Presentation Requirements**

  * **Project Metrics**: Your project will be evaluated on fulfilling technical criteria, as well as its concept, deployment, repository quality, application quality, presentation, and collaboration.

  * **API Suggestions**: It is recommended that you use an API that allows CORS, requires simple or no authentication, uses JSON, and is well documented.

  * **Today's Project Checklist**: Create a one-page proposal that contains a project title, project description, user story, wireframe or sketch of the design, APIs, and rough breakdown of tasks.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 8. Student Do: Project Work (65 min)

* Direct students to begin working in their groups to identify project ideas, research APIs, and create project designs.

* At your discretion, leverage TAs and host "workshops" to help steer groups in the right direction.

* Use the following talking points to guide and encourage the students:

  * Many of you may only have a rough idea of what your project will consist of. This is a good opportunity to eliminate unrealistic ideas and get a good sense of what is feasible.

  * Be cautious of underestimating the amount of time that features will take to implement. Try thinking of the MVP for each idea and attempt to pick the idea that excites your group and seems doable in the time you have.

* Remind students and the rest of the instructional staff that questions on Slack or otherwise are welcome and will be handled. It's a good way for your team to prioritize students who need extra help.

* Students should expect to submit initial project idea proposals by the end of class today.

### 9. Recap (5 min)

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

	* ☝️ What topics did we cover today? What are the main takeaways?

	* 🙋 We covered agile project management and collaborative workflow.

	* ☝️ **Remember that project presentations will be next week, so be ready for that!**

### 10. End

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete this [anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17).

---
© 2022 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand.  Confidential and Proprietary.  All Rights Reserved.
