# XX.2 Virtual Class: { MODULE TITLE }

## Overview

In today's virtual class, students will continue working on projects.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will be able to:

* Make progress towards building the MVP of their project

## Instructor Notes

* No classroom instruction today.

* You will assume the role of "scrummaster" and hold daily scrum meetings with each group. The purpose of these scrums is to:

	1. Gauge progress on projects

	2. Course correct if scope creeps or focus shifts

	3. Most importantly, hold students accountable. Participation is a requirement for receipt of a passing grade.

* Keep the daily scrums short. Ask **each** student the following questions:

	* What did you accomplish?

	* What are your goals?

	* Are there any obstacles?

* Prioritize meeting with any groups that have not yet identified a project idea, drafted a user story, or created a wireframe. These are your at-risk groups.

## Time Tracker

| Start  | #   | Activity Name                | Duration |
| ------ | --- | ---------------------------- | -------- |
| 6:30PM | 0   | Office Hours                 | 0:30     |
| 7:00PM | 1   | Instructor Do: Welcome       | 0:05     |
| 7:05PM | 2   | Student Do: Project Work     | 1:55     |
| 9:00PM | 3   | End                          | N/A      |

---

## Class Instructions

### 1. Instructor Do: Welcome (5 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Inform them that they will continue to work on their group project and should ask for help from you and your TAs.

* Also let them know that you will be checking on each group to hold daily scrums with them to gauge their progress.

* Answer any questions before proceeding.

### 2. Student Do: Project Work

* Direct students to continue to work with their groups on their projects while instructional staff make themselves available for assistance.

* Hold daily scrums with each group. Ask each student in the group the following questions:

	* What did you accomplish?

	* What are your goals?

	* Are there any obstacles?

* Answer any questions before ending class.

### 3. End

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete [this anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17).

---
© 2021 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
