# 24.2 Virtual Class: Project 03

## Overview

In this class, students will present their projects to their peers.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will have done the following:

* Demonstrated deployed projects.

* Explained the technical implementation of their projects.

* Described their individual roles and contributions to their projects.

## Instructor Notes

* Congratulate your class! This is a major milestone in their journey!

* Ask your students to think back to the very first day of class when they may have struggled with HTML and CSS. Remind them that they have grown from beginners into full-stack developers in a very short amount of time, which is a huge accomplishment. Remind students that web development is hard, and that they should celebrate not only their ability to make it all the way to final project week, but also the skills they have acquired.

* At the end of today’s class, please let students know they will be prompted to complete the **End-of-Course Survey** that covers their journey thus far. It’s important that they are aware of this in advance and that they take their time to complete the survey. This will ultimately help us understand how the program, the curriculum, the instruction, and our support can be improved!

* Project presentations are a rare opportunity for students to practice speaking about technical topics in front of an audience of peers.

* Limit presentations to 10 minutes: 7 to 8 minutes for the presentation itself, followed by 2 to 3 minutes for Q&A. This will ensure that every group presents and allow padding for transitions between groups.

* Prior to class, prepare a list of questions to ask each group to encourage discussion.

* Prior to class, and during presentations if necessary, collaborate with your TAs to prepare a slide deck of superlative awards for groups. Refer to this [example of a superlative award slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fJGzsclaQ5TKBk3EnL7Gc-bg1ijSGM6_oB1gvpKYnZE/edit?usp=sharing).

* Remind students about Demo Day.

## Office Hours

Use office hours to assist with any last minute debugging and deployment issues, or to provide feedback on presentations.

## Time Tracker

| Start  | #   | Activity Name                              | Duration |
| ------ | --- | ----------------------------               | -------- |
| 6:30PM | 0   | Office Hours                               | 0:30     |
| 7:00PM | 1   | Instructor Do: Welcome                     | 0:10     |
| 7:10PM | 2   | Student Do: Presentations                  | 1:45     |
| 8:55PM | 3   | Recap & Promote Resources                  | 0:05     |
| 9:00PM | 4   | End                                        | N/A      |

---

## Class Instructions

### 1. Instructor Do: Welcome (10 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Congratulate your class for making it this far in the course and developing their projects to a state worth presenting. This is a huge milestone for students and they should take a moment to celebrate how far they have come!

* Ask which groups would like to go first and write them down on a list. When groups stop responding, assign the remaining teams to random slots.

* Address any last-minute questions before presentations.

### 2. Student Do: Presentations (105 min)

* Divide this time block by the number of student groups presenting.

* Follow each of these presentations up with questions about their projects. Let TAs and classmates ask questions, too.

* If there aren't many questions, ask the group to explain how they built their application and encourage them to speak technically about some of their code.

* When all the presentations are done, present superlative awards and congratulate each group for accomplishing this huge milestone!

### 3. Recap & Promote Additional Resources (5 min)

* Congratulate the students on finishing their final project presentations! It's challenging to conceive, develop, and present a new web application. Remind them how much they've learned over the past 6 months:

  * They started by mastering the foundational front-end technologies that all websites use.

  * Next, they added back-end technologies to create full-stack applications.

  * Finally, they learned how to make applications more performant and efficient by using cutting-edge technologies to create scalable MERN stack applications.

* Encourage the students to RSVP for the upcoming **Demo Day**. An invitation email will be sent out or they can reach out to their Student Success Manager for the link.

* Remind students to complete the **End of Course survey**. It’s important that they are aware of this in advance and that they take their time to complete the survey. This will ultimately help us understand how the program, the curriculum, the instruction, and our support can be improved!

* Direct students to the additional resources available to them:

  * Reflection and Retrieval

  * Career Connection

* Answer any questions before ending class.

### 4. End

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete [this anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17).

---
© 2022 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand.  Confidential and Proprietary.  All Rights Reserved.
