# Module 13 Virtual Class (Required): Object-Relational Mapping

## Overview 

In today's required virtual class, students will review Sequelize CRUD methods, associations, and eager loading.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will be able to:

* Add validations to models

* Use Sequelize CRUD methods in routes

* Create relationships between models

* Make queries using the Sequelize `include` option

## Instructor Notes 

* Be sure to prepare and read over the activities before your class begins. Try to anticipate any questions students may have.

* Make sure you change all of the connection information so the examples have your MySQL username/password!

* If you don't want to do it live in class, create the databases required for today's exercises before class.

* BE VERY CAREFUL NOT TO GO TOO IN DEPTH. There are a ton of components that make Sequelize work, but much of it is boilerplate that doesn't need much explanation. 

* THIS IS TOUGH STUFF! This week, tell your class to not feel discouraged if there are concepts that they can't nail down completely. Tell them to try their best, but to speak with you or a TA if they're unsure of anything.

* The first activity `03-Blog-CRUD` will take the students longer than the usual 15 minutes, but the following activities won't take as long. So make note of the adjusted Time Tracker and allocated time for each activity today.

* Lesson 1 and 3 covered the basic CRUD methods, Lesson 4 and 5 went into associations and eager loading.


## Office Hours

Encourage students to work on the remaining module algorithms during Office Hours. Review the algorithm solutions 5–10 minutes before class begins or during Office Hours after class.


## Time Tracker 

| Start  | #   | Activity Name                       | Duration |
| ------ | --- | ----------------------------        | -------- |
| 6:30PM | 0   | Office Hours                        | 0:30     |
| 7:00PM | 1   | Introduction                        | 0:10     |
| 7:10PM | 2   | Review Current Challenge            | 0:05     |
| 7:15PM | 3   | Instructor Demo: Blog CRUD          | 0:05     |
| 7:20PM | 4   | Student Do: Blog CRUD               | 0:25     |
| 7:45PM | 5   | Instructor Review: Blog CRUD        | 0:10     |
| 7:55PM | 6   | Instructor Demo: Blog Association   | 0:05     |
| 8:00PM | 7   | Student Do: Blog Association        | 0:10     |
| 8:10PM | 8   | Instructor Review: Blog Association | 0:10     |
| 8:20PM | 9   | Instructor Demo: Blog Joins         | 0:05     |
| 8:25PM | 10  | Student Do: Blog Joins              | 0:15     |
| 8:40PM | 11  | Instructor Review: Blog Joins       | 0:10     |
| 8:50PM | 12  | Recap & Promote Resources           | 0:05     |
| 8:55PM | 13  | Introduce Upcoming Challenge        | 0:05     |
| 9:00PM | 14  | Office Hours                        | 0:30     |
| 9:30PM | 15  | End                                 | N/A      |

---

## Class Instructions

### 1. Introduction (10 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ What did you learn this week? How would you explain it to your friends and family?

    * 🙋 We learned about Sequelize, which is a promise-based Node.js ORM for MySQL. We are moving fast compared to traditional learners. It’s okay to feel overwhelmed as long as you don’t give up.

    * ☝️ Did anyone have an "Aha!" or "Eureka!" moment this week? When was it and why did things suddenly click for you? 

    * 🙋 Eureka moments happen when we try different approaches to a problem or change the way we're thinking about it.

    * ☝️ Did anyone feel stuck this week? How did you get unstuck?

    * 🙋 It's easy to get stuck when you're learning web development. It's important to learn how to get unstuck because it happens to the pros too. Rather than getting lost in search results, consult the tool's official documentation first. Then ask for help from instructional staff or your peers. Study groups are great because explaining your problems to someone else often reveals the solution. 


### 2. Review Current Challenge (5 min)

* Navigate to [13-ORM/02-Challenge/Master/](../../01-Class-Content/13-ORM/02-Challenge/Master/) from the command line and run `node server.js`.

* Open <http://localhost:3000/api/products> in a browser and demonstrate the following: 

    * You're going to build the API routes for a products database.

    * Products belong to a category and can have many tags each.

    * You'll be using an ORM called Sequelize to help you define your data's relationships and help you to execute complicated queries.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ What recently acquired skills will help us build this challenge?

    * 🙋 We will be using Sequelize as our ORM for this application. We utilized the CRUD methods to query our products database and well as the tags.

    * ☝️ How are these skills relevant to a career in web development?

    * 🙋 Professional applications rely on ORMs to make the data easier to define and understand. ORMs also implement many safeguards for us to prevent bad or malicious data.

    * ☝️ How will this challenge improve your portfolio?

    * 🙋 It will demonstrate a firm understanding of databases and ORMs.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 3. Instructor Demo: Blog CRUD (5 min) 

* Be sure to have already created the `blogger` DB, run `npm install`, and modified the `connection.js` file to include your MySQL user/database information. Otherwise, walk through it with the class.

* Navigate to `03-Blog-CRUD/Solved/` in your command line and run `npm start`. Navigate to `localhost:3001` in your browser and demonstrate the following:

    * 🔑 We can create a few posts and see them all listed.

    * 🔑 We can choose a category and see the list of posts for that category.
    
    * 🔑 We can edit a post by clicking on the "EDIT" button.

    * 🔑 We can delete a post by click on the "X" button.

    * 🔑 If we have nothing written in the body of the post, or if the post title is too long, we won't be able to proceed.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Where have we used this before?

    * 🙋 We learned about CRUD in Module 12 but this time we will specifically use Sequelize CRUD methods.

    * ☝️ How does this activity equip us for the challenge?

    * 🙋 Our challenge is all about using CRUD methods to work with our products and tags databases.

    * ☝️ How would we build this?

    * 🙋 We need to use Sequelize CRUD methods in the appropriate routes.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 4. Student Do: Blog CRUD  (25 min) 

* **Let students know that this first activity will be given 25 minutes to complete**

* Divide students into breakout rooms.

* Direct students to the activity instructions found in `03-Blog-CRUD/README.md`.

    ```md
    # Blog CRUD

    In this activity, you will add validations for the `Post` model and add Sequelize CRUD methods to the appropriate routes. 

    ## Instructions

    * Create a `blogger` DB. You will use this database for all of today's activities.

    * Navigate to the [Unsolved](Unsolved/) folder and run `npm install` in your terminal.

    * Be sure to modify the [connection.js](Unsolved/config/connection.js) file to include your MySQL user/database information. 

    * Open the [post.js](Unsolved/models/post.js) file and examine the Sequelize `Post` model.

    * Add the following validations:

        1. Flags to the `title` and `body` to prevent NULL values from being entered.

        2. A validation to the `title` so that it must be between 1 and 160 characters.

        3. A flag to the category so that it has a default value of "Personal" if a value is not supplied.

    * Open the [api-routes.js](Unsolved/routes/api-routes.js) file and fill in each route with the following Sequelize methods:

        * A `findAll()` method inside the GET route to get the posts of a specific category.

        * A `findOne()` method inside the GET route to get a single post using the id from `req.params.id`.

        * A `create()` method inside the POST route to save a new post using the data in `req.body`.

        * A `destroy()` method inside the DELETE route to delete a post using the id from `req.params.id`.

        * An `update()` method inside the PUT route to update a post using the new todo data in `req.body`.

    * To test if everything is working properly, run `npm start` in your terminal. Navigate to `localhost:3001` in your browser and check if we have the following functionality (recommended order):

        1. Create a new post
        
        2. Get a list of all posts
        
        3. Get a list of all posts of a category
        
        4. Edit a post
        
        5. Delete a post

    ## Hint(s)

    * You may need to consult the [Sequelize Validations & Constraints docs](https://sequelize.org/master/manual/validations-and-constraints.html) on how to validate the data.

    * You may need to read the Sequelize documentation on the [findAll()](http://docs.sequelizejs.com/class/lib/model.js~Model.html#static-method-findAll), [create()](http://docs.sequelizejs.com/class/lib/model.js~Model.html#static-method-create), [update()](http://docs.sequelizejs.com/class/lib/model.js~Model.html#static-method-update), [destroy()](http://docs.sequelizejs.com/class/lib/model.js~Model.html#static-method-destroy) methods, as well as check out [how to apply the "where" clause](https://sequelize.org/master/manual/model-querying-basics.html#applying-where-clauses).

    * If things aren't working as expected, check to see if any errors logged to the terminal.
    ```

### 5. Instructor Review: Blog CRUD  (10 min) 

* Bring students back from breakout rooms. 

* Use the prompts and talking points below to review the following key (🔑) points:

    * ✔️ Validations

    * ✔️ `findAll()`

    * ✔️ `findOne()`

    * ✔️ `create()`

    * ✔️ `destroy()`

    * ✔️ `update()`

* Open `03-Blog-CRUD/Solved/models/post.js` in your IDE and explain the following: 

    * 🔑 We need to add a few validations to our `Post` model. First we need to prevent NULL values from being entered in the title and body.

    ```js
    Post.init(
      {
        title: {
          type: DataTypes.STRING,
          allowNull: false
      },
        body: {
          type: DataTypes.TEXT,
          allowNull: false
      }
    });  
    ```

    * Next we need to allow only 1 to 160 characters for the title.

    ```js
    Post.init(
      {
        title: {
          type: DataTypes.STRING,
          allowNull: false,
          validate: {
            len: [1, 160]
          }
        }
    });
    ```

    * Finally we need to give the category a default value of "Personal" if a value is not given.

    ```js
    category: {
        type: DataTypes.STRING,
        defaultValue: 'Personal'
    }
    ```

* Open `03-Blog-CRUD/Solved/routes/api-routes.js` in your IDE and explain the following: 

    * 🔑 We use the Sequelize `findAll()` method inside the GET route to get the posts of a specific category and return them to the user as JSON.

    ```js
    router.get('/api/posts/category/:category', (req, res) => {
      Post.findAll({
        where: {
          category: req.params.category
        }
      }).then(dbPost => {
        res.json(dbPost);
      });
    });
    ```

    * 🔑 We use the Sequelize `findOne()` method inside the GET route to get a single post using the `id` from `req.params.id`.

    ```js
    router.get('/api/posts/:id', (req, res) => {
      Post.findOne({
        where: {
          id: req.params.id
        }
      }).then(dbPost => {
        res.json(dbPost);
      });   
    });
    ```

    * 🔑 We use the Sequelize `create()` method inside the POST route to save a new post using the data in `req.body`.

    ```js
    router.post('/api/posts', (req, res) => {
      console.log(req.body);
      Post.create({
        title: req.body.title,
        body: req.body.body,
        category: req.body.category
      }).then(dbPost => {
        res.json(dbPost);
      });
    });
    ```

    * 🔑 We use the Sequelize `destroy()` method inside the DELETE route to delete a post using the `id` from `req.params.id`.

    ```js
    router.delete('/api/posts/:id', (req, res) => {
      Post.destroy({
        where: {
          id: req.params.id
        }
      }).then(dbPost => {
        res.json(dbPost);
      });
    });
    ```

    * 🔑 We use the Sequelize `update()` method inside the PUT route to update a post using the new data in `req.body`.

    ```js
    router.put('/api/posts/:id', (req, res) => {
      Post.update(
        {
          title: req.body.title,
          body: req.body.body,
          category: req.body.category
        },
        {
          where: {
            id: req.params.id
          }
        }
      ).then(dbPost => {
        res.json(dbPost);
      });
    });
    ```

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Why is it important to add validations to our models?

    * 🙋 Model-level validations are the best way to ensure that only valid data is saved into your database. 

    * ☝️ What can you do if you don't completely understand this?

    * 🙋 We can refer to the lesson plan, read the [Sequelize Model docs](https://sequelize.org/master/class/lib/model.js~Model.html), and stick around for office hours to ask for help.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 6. Instructor Demo: Blog Association  (5 min) 

* Be sure to have already run `npm install` and modified the `connection.js` file to include your MySQL user/database information. Otherwise, walk through it with the class.

* Navigate to `04-Blog-Association/Solved/` in your command line and run `npm start`. Open your MySQL Workbench and demonstrate the following:

    * 🔑 The `Post` table now has a foreign key of `AuthorId`

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Where have we used this before?

    * 🙋 We learned about foreign keys and "through" tables when we created the Vote Model that connected the Post and User Models in Lesson 4.

    * ☝️ How does this activity equip us for the challenge?

    * 🙋 Our products will belong to a category and can have many tags each. These will all involve associations which is what we're practicing here.

    * ☝️ How would we build this?

    * 🙋 We need to create relationships between the `Post` and `Author` models.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 7. Student Do: Blog Association  (10 min) 

* **Let students know that this activity is shorter and will be given only 10 minutes to complete**

* Divide students into breakout rooms.

* Direct students to the activity instructions found in `04-Blog-Association/README.md`.

    ```md
    # Blog Association

    In this activity, you will create relationships between the `Post` and `Author` models so that they are associated with each other. 

    ## Instructions

    * Navigate to the [Unsolved](Unsolved/) folder and run `npm install` in your terminal.

    * Be sure to modify the [connection.js](Unsolved/app/config/connection.js) file to include your MySQL user/database information.

    * Open the [index.js](Unsolved/models/index.js) file and create the following associations:

      * Create a relationship that instructs the `Post` to belong to `Author`.

      * Create a relationship that instructs `Author` that it has many `Post`.

    * To test if the association was created properly, run `npm start` in your terminal and check your MySQL Workbench. If the `Post` table now has a foreign key of `AuthorId`, you were successful!

    ## Hint(s)

    * You may need to consult the [Sequelize Manual on Associations](https://sequelize.org/master/manual/assocs.html) on how to make relationships between the models. 
    ```

### 8. Instructor Review: Blog Association  (10 min) 

* Bring students back from breakout rooms. 

* Use the prompts and talking points below to review the following key (🔑) points:

    * ✔️ `belongsTo` association

    * ✔️ `hasMany` association

* Open `04-Blog-Association/Solved/models/index.js` in your IDE and explain the following: 

    * Sequelize provides four types of associations of which we will use the `belongsTo` and `hasMany` associations.

    * 🔑 We need to create a relationship that instructs the `Post` to belong to an `Author`. 
    
    * `Post` is the source model and the foreign key will be defined in it. 

    ```js
    Post.belongsTo(Author);
    ```

    * 🔑 We need to create a relationship that instructs `Author` that it has many `Post`. 
    
    * Here `Post` is the target model with the foreign key. 

    ```js
    Author.hasMany(Post);
    ```

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ In our case where we use `hasMany` and `belongsTo` associations together, what is this relationship called?

    * 🙋 This kind of relationship is called `One-to-Many`. There are also `One-to-One` relationships and `Many-to-Many` relationships.

    * ☝️ What can you do if you don't completely understand this?

    * 🙋 We can refer to Lesson 4, read the [Sequelize Manual on Associations](https://sequelize.org/master/manual/assocs.html), and stick around for office hours to ask for help.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 9. Instructor Demo: Blog Joins  (5 min) 

* Be sure to have already run `npm install` and modified the `connection.js` file to include your MySQL user/database information. Otherwise, walk through it with the class.

* Navigate to `05-Blog-Joins/Solved/` in your command line and run `npm start`. Navigate to `localhost:3001` in your browser and demonstrate the following:

    * 🔑 We can create authors now! Create a few authors.

    * 🔑 Create a few posts for each author.

* Navigate to `localhost:8080/api/posts` and `localhost:8080/api/authors` in your browser and show the JSON returned for both routes: 

    * 🔑 They should include all of the post and author's information together.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Where have we used this before?

    * 🙋 Again, we learned about these associations when we created the Vote Model that connected the Post and User Models in Lesson 4 and 5.

    * ☝️ How does this activity equip us for the challenge?

    * 🙋Since the products belong to a category and can have many tags each, they may need to use the `include` option in the GET routes.

    * ☝️ How would we build this?

    * 🙋 We need to use Sequelize's "include" option in the queries we make in the GET routes. 

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 10. Student Do: Blog Joins  (15 min) 

* **Let students know that this activity is shorter and will be given only 15 minutes to complete**

* Divide students into breakout rooms.

* Direct students to the activity instructions found in `05-Blog-Joins/README.md`.

    ```md
    # Blog Joins

    In this activity, you will modify the queries in both `post-api-routes.js` and `author-api-routes.js` to use Sequelize's "include" option.

    ## Instructions

    * Navigate to the [Unsolved](Unsolved/) folder and run `npm install` in your terminal.

    * Be sure to modify the [connection.js](Unsolved/app/config/connection.js) file to include your MySQL user/database information.

    * Open the [post-api-routes.js](Unsolved/routes/post-api-routes.js) file.

        * Add the "include" option to the queries specified in the comments. We want to "include" the Author model. 

    * Open the [author-api-routes.js](Unsolved/routes/author-api-routes.js) file.

        * Add the "include" option to the queries specified in the comments. We want to "include" the Post model. 

    * To test if everything is working properly, run `npm start` in your terminal and navigate to `localhost:3001` in your browser. 

        * After creating a few Authors with a few Posts each, navigate to either `localhost:8080/api/posts` or `localhost:8080/api/authors` to make sure the JSON returned for both routes includes all of the data.

    ## Hint(s) 

    * The "include" key goes on the same options object as the "where" attribute we've been using. 

    * Note how we are requiring the models in order to set the correct value of the "include" option.
    ```


### 11. Instructor Review: Blog Joins  (10 min) 

* Bring students back from breakout rooms. 

* Use the prompts and talking points below to review the following key (🔑) points:

    * ✔️ `include` the Author model

    * ✔️ `include` the Post model

* Open `05-Blog-Joins/Solved/routes/api/post-api-routes.js` in your IDE and explain the following: 

    * We require our models at the top of the file. It is a little different from how we've been doing it in our previous activities today.

    ```js
    const db = require('../../models');
    ```

    * 🔑 We need to add the `include` property to our options in the `findAll()` query. We set the value to an array of the models we want to include in a left outer join, which is `db.Author`:

    ```js
    router.get('/', (req, res) => {
      const query = {};
      if (req.query.author_id) {
        query.AuthorId = req.query.author_id;
      }

      db.Post.findAll({
        where: query,
        include: [db.Author]
      }).then(dbPost => {
        res.json(dbPost);
      });
    });
    ```

    * We need to add another `include` property to our options in the `findOne()` query:

    ```js
    router.get('/:id', (req, res) => {
      db.Post.findOne({
        where: {
          id: req.params.id
        },
        include: [db.Author]
      }).then(dbPost => {
        res.json(dbPost);
      });
    });
    ```

* Open `05-Blog-Joins/Solved/routes/api/author-api-routes.js` in your IDE and explain the following: 

    * We need to do the same thing to our `Author` routes. 
    
    * 🔑 We need to add the `include` property to our options in the `findAll()` query. We set the value to an array of the models we want to include in a left outer join, which is `db.Post`:

    ```js
    router.get('/', (req, res) => {
      db.Author.findAll({
        include: [db.Post]
      }).then(dbAuthor => {
        res.json(dbAuthor);
      });
    });
    ```

    * Finally we need to add an `include` property to our options in the `findOne()` query:

    ```js
    router.get('/:id', (req, res) => {
      db.Author.findOne({
        where: {
          id: req.params.id
        },
        include: [db.Post]
      }).then(dbAuthor => {
        res.json(dbAuthor);
      });
    });
    ```

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ What is eager loading?

    * 🙋 Eager loading is when you query data of several models at once (one 'main' model and one or more associated models). At the SQL level, this is a query with one or more joins. In Sequelize, eager loading is mainly done by using the `include` option on a model finder query (such as `findOne`, `findAll`, etc).

    * ☝️ What can you do if you don't completely understand this?

    * 🙋 We can refer to Lesson 4, read the [Sequelize Manual on Eager Loading](https://sequelize.org/master/manual/eager-loading.html), and stick around for office hours to ask for help.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 12. Recap & Promote Additional Resources (5 min)

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ What do you think you absolutely need to know to succeed at the challenge?

    * 🙋 We need to know Sequelize CRUD methods as well as how to make relationships between the models.

    * ☝️ What do you think is okay to not completely understand?

    * 🙋 All of it! The field of web development is very wide and rapidly evolving. Unless you choose to specialize, it is not necessary to know any one area completely to be successful. 

    * ☝️ Why is it important to do as much of the lesson material prior to class as possible?

    * 🙋 It's important both to be fully prepared to start the challenge and because it will prepare you for your future career as a web developer. We cover a lot of material in the boot camp. Lessons are intentionally designed to give each topic an optimal amount of depth and scope so that you have a solid foundation to build upon in future lessons. The skills you learn in the lessons are cutting-edge, real-world skills that you will use in your career as a full-stack web developer.

* Direct students to the additional resources available to them:

    * Reflection and Retrieval

    * Career Connection

    * Dessert Menu

### 13. Introduce Upcoming Challenge (5 min)

@TODO USE THE FOLLOWING FOR BROWSER AND/OR COMMAND LINE DEMOS, RESPECTIVELY. REMOVE IF UNUSED
* Open `@TODO/folder/file` in your browser and demonstrate the following:
* Run `@TODO/folder/file { AND ARGS, IF ANY }` from the command line and demonstrate the following: 

    * @TODO { WHAT ARE WE GOING TO BE BUILD? }

    * @TODO { ISN'T THIS NEAT! A SOPHISTICATED OR MODERN APPLICATION OF A KEY TOPIC. }

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ What are we learning?

    * 🙋 @TODO { YES, WHAT? }.

    * ☝️ How does this project build off or extend previously learned material?

    * 🙋 @TODO {YES, WHAT? }.

    * ☝️ How does this project relate to your career goals?

    * 🙋 @TODO { HOW DO COMPANIES USE IT IN INTERESTING WAYS? HOW POPULAR OR IN-DEMAND IS IT? WHY IS THE PROJECT ENTICING TO EMPLOYERS? }

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 14. Office Hours (30 min)

* Announce Office Hours and encourage students to stay on the Zoom and start the challenge while they have live support from instructional staff. 


### 15. End 

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete [this anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17).

---
© 2020 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
