# Module 10 Virtual Class: Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)

## Overview 

In today's virtual class, students will review constructor functions and the keyword `this`, as well as solve a new algorithm in CodeSignal. 

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will be able to:

* Create a constructor function

* Use the `this` keyword 

## Instructor Notes

* Be sure to prepare and read over the activities before your class begins. Try to anticipate any questions students may have.

* During activities, visit a few breakout rooms quietly and ask the group if they are comfortable with the activity and provide gentle tips to keep them on track.

* If you are comfortable doing so, live code the solutions to the activities. If not, use the solutions provided and follow the prompts and talking points for review. 

* If you notice that your students are struggling with the activities or feeling frustrated, encourage them by letting them know that these are hard topics to understand. With time and practice, it will get easier and will make them employer-competitive! If you are comfortable doing so, share your own struggle and/or personal experiences learning and working with OOP.

* Although students won't directly use constructor functions in the upcoming Challenge, they will use ES6 Classes. Classes function in a similar way to constructors, so help students see the relevance in doing today's activities.

* Students used the constructor function and `this` in Lesson 1.

## Time Tracker 

| Start  | #  | Activity Name                     | Duration |
|---     |--- |---                                |---       |
| 7:00PM | 1  | Everyone Do: Career Connection    | 0:20     |
| 7:20PM | 2  | Instructor Do: Student Check-In   | 0:05     |
| 7:25PM | 3  | Instructor Demo: Constructor      | 0:05     |
| 7:30PM | 4  | Student Do: Constructor           | 0:15     |
| 7:45PM | 5  | Instructor Review: Constructor    | 0:10     |
| 7:55PM | 6  | Instructor Demo: MiniBank        | 0:05     |
| 8:00PM | 7  | Student Do: MiniBank             | 0:15     |
| 8:15PM | 8  | Instructor Review: MiniBank      | 0:10     |
| 8:25PM | 9  | Recap                             | 0:05     |
| 8:30PM | 10 | Office Hours                      | 0:30     |
| 9:00PM | 11 | End                               | N/A      |

---

## Class Instructions 

### 1. Everyone Do: Career Connection (20 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Invite students to post questions in the Zoom chat so TAs and/or the instructor can address them at the end of class.

* Open the lesson's [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1O_Or8Fv6twbV4V9mIllFGczAqcdMzb5Mw2nzv94Cgfw/edit?usp=sharing) and walk through the following slides on foundation setting: 

    **Big Picture**: This is an opportunity to look at the big picture of where students are in the course. Take a moment to discuss a few real-world examples of why this week's topics are valuable.

    **Boot Camp Pointers**: Review some logistics that will help students stay on track. This is an opportunity to speak to what students might need at this particular point in the course. 

    **This Week**: Review the key skills students will be learning this week. 

    **This Week's Assignment**: Give a quick summary of this week's Challenge assignment and describe how the skills they learn throughout the week will be applied to it.

    **Career Connection**: Reinforce that students will use the skills they learn this week throughout their careers. It's important for them to know the "why" and "how" behind the "what." Give examples of how these skills are used on the job. If you feel comfortable, share examples of how you have used them in your professional career.

    * Let students know that object-oriented programming is a crucial concept not only for JavaScript but for coding in general. Whatever language they end up working with after boot camp, these principles they learn this week are directly transferable. 

    * Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

        * ☝️ Can anybody name some server-side programming languages other than Node.js?

        * 🙋 C#, Java, Python, C++ (and you may get some more abstract answers).

        * ☝️ Many of these are object-oriented programming languages, meaning that we write entire programs using the concepts that we will work through this week in JavaScript. The cool part is that while there is a little syntax difference, objects in Java or C# work very similarly to how they work in JavaScript. But why do we care? Why is this important?

        * 🙋 Because it means we aren't limited to applying to only JavaScript roles! We could also apply for jobs using C# or Java and lean into our object-oriented programming experience for the application and interview.

    **How to Succeed This Week**: Remind students that they might experience moments of frustration as they learn complex concepts and tools, and that these times are actually proven opportunities to deepen knowledge. Consider sharing something about your personal learning journey. This helps students recognize that everyone starts somewhere and that they are not alone.

    **Today's Objectives:** Outline the concepts that will be covered in today's lesson. Remind students that they can find the relevant activity files in the "Getting Ready for Class" page in their course content.

### 2. Instructor Do: Student Check-In (5 min)

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ How are you feeling about your progress so far?

  * 🙋 We are adding another layer to our full-stack skill set. It's important to look back at what we accomplished and acknowledge that it is a lot! It’s also okay to feel overwhelmed&mdash;as long as you don’t give up.

  * ☝️ How comfortable do you feel with this topic?

  * 🙋 Let's do Fist to Five together. If you are not feeling confident, hold up a fist (0). If you feel very confident, hold up an open hand (5).

### 3. Instructor Demo: Constructor Function (5 min) 

* Navigate to `01-Constructor-Function/Solved/` in your command line and run `node catsDogs.js` to demonstrate the following: 

    * 🔑 We see "Woof!" in the console.

* Open `01-Constructor-Function/Unsolved/catsDogs.js` in your IDE and explain following: 

    * 🔑 If you create a constructor function properly, the `dog` and `cat` objects will be created and when `makeNoise()` is called, only the dog will "Woof!" in the console.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Where have we used this before?

    * 🙋 We used a constructor function to create potions for the role-playing game in Lesson 1.

    * ☝️ How does this activity equip us for the Challenge?

    * 🙋 Although we won't directly use constructor functions in the upcoming Challenge, we will use ES6 Classes. Classes function in a similar way to constructors. We will use classes to create `Employee`, `Manager`, `Engineer`, and `Intern` objects with various properties. 

    * ☝️ How would we build this?

    * 🙋 We need to create a constructor function that will make different `Animal` objects with various properties and methods.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 4. Student Do: Constructor Function (15 min) 

* Divide students into breakout rooms.

* Direct students to the activity instructions found in `01-Constructor-Function/README.md`, which are also shown here:

     ```md
     # Constructor Function

     In this activity, you will create a constructor function. 

     ## Instructions

     * Open [Unsolved/catsDogs.js](Unsolved/catsDogs.js) and create a constructor function called `Animal`.

     * The constructor function will take in two parameters, `raining` and `noise`. These will be passed into the keys as their value. 

     * Create a third key that will be a function called `makeNoise()`. The function checks if the `raining` key's value is `true`. If it is, it will log the value of the key's `noise` in the console. 

     ## Bonus

     * How can we make the cat make noise? In other words, how can we change the value of `raining` for the `cat` object after it has been created? 
     ```

### 5. Instructor Review: Constructor Function (10 min) 

* Bring students back from breakout rooms. 

* Use the prompts and talking points (:key:) below to review the following key points (✔️):

    * ✔️ `raining` and `noise` parameters

    * ✔️ `makeNoise()`

* Open `01-Constructor-Function/Solved/catsDogs.js` in your IDE and explain the following: 

    * 🔑 We create a constructor function called `Animal` that takes in two parameters, `raining` and `noise`

         ```js
         function Animal(raining, noise) {
         ```

    * 🔑 We pass the `raining` and `noise` parameters into the object's keys as their value.

         ```js
         this.raining = raining;
         this.noise = noise;
         ```

    * 🔑 The third key is a function called `makeNoise()`. The function checks if the `raining` key's value is `true`. If it is, it will log the value of the key's `noise` in the console.

         ```js
         this.makeNoise = function() {
           if (this.raining === true) {
             console.log(this.noise);
           }
         };
         ```

    * When we run `node catsDogs.js` in the console, the `dog` and `cat` objects are created and the `makeNoise()` method is called on them.

         ```js
         let dog = new Animal(true, "Woof!");
         let cat = new Animal(false, "Meow!");

         dog.makeNoise();
         cat.makeNoise();
         ```

    * Only the `dog`'s "Woof!" will be logged in the console since its `raining` value is set to `true`.

    * However, for the bonus, we can set the `raining` value of `cat` to `true` and call the `makeNoise()` method to make it "Meow!" in the console.

         ```js
         cat.raining = true;
         cat.makeNoise();
         ```

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ How are constructors useful?

    * 🙋 They allow us to create as many objects as we want, all from a single blueprint. This lessens redundant code.

    * ☝️ What can we do if we don't completely understand this?

    * 🙋 We can refer to Lesson 1 and stay for Office Hours to ask for help.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 6. Instructor Demo: MiniBank (5 min) 

* Navigate to `02-Mini-Bank/Solved/` in your command line and run `node minibank.js` to demonstrate the following: 

    * 🔑 We can see that our starting balance is 0.

    * 🔑 Then we deposited 85, so the balance is 85.

    * 🔑 Then we withdrew 20, so the balance is 65.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Where have we used this before?

    * 🙋 We used constructors and the `this` keyword in our role-playing game.

    * ☝️ How does this activity equip us for the Challenge?

    * 🙋 Although we won't directly use constructor functions in the upcoming Challenge, we will use ES6 Classes, which uses the `this` keyword. 

    * ☝️ How would we build this?

    * 🙋 The basic `MiniBank` constructor is given. We will need to add functions and log the transactions in the console.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 7. Student Do: MiniBank (15 min) 

* Divide students into breakout rooms.

* Direct students to the activity instructions found in `02-Mini-Bank/README.md`, which are also shown here:

     ```md
     # MiniBank

     In this activity, you will use objects to create a mini banking application.

     ## Instructions

     ### Part 1: Add methods and properties to `MiniBank`

     Open [Unsolved/minibank.js](Unsolved/minibank.js) and update the `MiniBank` constructor function with the following methods and properties:

     * Add a `setBalance()` function. 

         * This function should receive a `value` parameter and assign it to the `balance` property of `MiniBank`.

     * Add a `deposit()` function. 

         * This function should receive a `value` parameter and call `setBalance()` to update the `balance` property after adding the `value` amount.

         * Log the amount that was deposited in the console, i.e. `Deposited 85!`

     * Write a `withdraw()` function. 

         * This function should receive a `value` parameter and call `setBalance()` to update the `balance` property after subtracting the `value` amount.

         * Log the amount that was withdrawn in the console, i.e. `Withdrew 20!`

     ### Part 2: Create and use a `MiniBank` instance

     * Create a new `bank` object using the `MiniBank` constructor function.

     * Print the `bank` balance.

     * Deposit some money into the `bank` object.

     * Print the `bank` balance.

     * Withdraw some money from the `bank` object.

     * Print the `bank` balance.

     ## Hint(s)

     * Before you can call the `setBalance()` function, you will need to call the `getBalance()` function to add or subtract the `value` amount and get a new balance. 

     ## Bonus

     * Add code to throw an error if the user tries to withdraw more money than they have, or try to deposit or withdraw values that aren't positive numbers.
     ```

### 8. Instructor Review: MiniBank (10 min) 

* Bring students back from breakout rooms. 

* Use the prompts and talking points (:key:) below to review the following key points (✔️):

    * ✔️ `setBalance()`

    * ✔️ `deposit()`

    * ✔️ `withdraw()`

    * ✔️ Create and use a `MiniBank` instance

* Open `02-Mini-Bank/Solved/minibank.js` in your IDE and explain the following: 

    * 🔑 We create a `setBalance()` function that will receive a `value` parameter and assign it to the `balance` property.

         ```js
         this.setBalance = function(value) {
             this.balance = value;
         },
         ```

    * 🔑 We create a `deposit()` function that will receive a `value` parameter and add it to the current balance using `getBalance()`. 
    
    * Then it will call `setBalance()` to update the `balance` property with this new balance.

    * Finally, we log the `value` that was deposited in the console.

         ```js
         this.deposit = function(value) {
             let newBalance = this.getBalance() + value;
             this.setBalance(newBalance);
             console.log(`Deposited ${value}!`);
         },
         ```

    * 🔑 We create a `withdraw()` function that will receive a `value` parameter and subtract it from the current balance using `getBalance()`. 
    
    * Then it will call `setBalance()` to update the `balance` property with this new balance.

    * Finally we log the `value` that was withdrawn in the console.

         ```js
         this.withdraw = function(value) {
             let newBalance = this.getBalance() - value;
             this.setBalance(newBalance);
             console.log(`Withdrew ${value}!`);
         },
         ```

    * 🔑 We create a new `bank` object using the `MiniBank` constructor function and then we print the `bank` balance.

         ```js
         let bank = new MiniBank(0);
         bank.printBalance();
         ```
    
    * We deposit some money and then print the `bank` balance.

         ```js
         bank.deposit(85);
         bank.printBalance();
         ```

    * We withdraw some money and then print the `bank` balance.

         ```js
         bank.withdraw(20);
         bank.printBalance();
         ```

    * If you got to the bonus, here is how we would throw an error if the user tries to deposit or withdraw values that aren't positive numbers, or tries to withdraw more money than the current balance. 

         ```js
         // If values are not positive numbers
         if (typeof value !== "number" || value <= 0) {
           throw new Error("'value' must be a positive number!");
         }

         // If withdrawal amount is more than balance
         if (newBalance < 0) {
           throw new Error("Insufficient funds for this transaction");
         }
         ```

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ How does OOP make solving this activity easier?

    * 🙋 The use of objects and constructors allows us to create a single blueprint, that we can then use to create as many instances of our `MiniBank` as we like.

    * ☝️ What can we do if we don't completely understand this?

    * 🙋 We can refer to Lesson 1 and 2, read the [MDN docs on Object-oriented JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Objects/Object-oriented_JS), and stay for Office Hours to ask for help.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 9. Recap (5 min)

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ What topics did we cover today? What are the main takeaways?

    * 🙋 We covered constructor functions and the use of the `this` keyword. 

    * ☝️ What do you think is okay to not completely understand?

    * 🙋 All of it! The field of web development is very wide and rapidly evolving. Unless you choose to specialize, it's not necessary to know any one area completely to be successful. 

    * ☝️ Why is it important to do as much of the lesson material before class as possible?

    * 🙋 It's important both to be fully prepared to start the Challenge and because it will prepare you for your future career as a web developer. We cover a lot of material in the boot camp. Lessons are intentionally designed to give each topic an optimal amount of depth and scope so that you have a solid foundation to build upon in future lessons. The skills you learn in the lessons are cutting-edge, real-world skills that you will use in your career as a full-stack web developer. 

    * ☝️ Where in the asynchronous lessons can you learn more?

    * 🙋 Constructors and `this` are introduced in Lesson 1 and used throughout that module.

    * ☝️ What excites you about the remaining lessons for this week?

* Use student answers to transition to Office Hours.

### 10. Office Hours (30 min)

* Announce Office Hours, and invite students to stay on the Zoom and start the Challenge while they have live support from instructional staff. 

### 11. End

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete [this anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17)

---
© 2021 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand.  Confidential and Proprietary.  All Rights Reserved.
