# Module 15 Virtual Class: Project 2

## Overview

In today's virtual class, students will review agile methodologies and Git workflow, including creating a repository and branches, and making pull requests. Students will also use this time to work on their group projects.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will be able to:

* Use agile methodologies

* Work collaboratively using branches in Git

## Instructor Notes

* In today's class, you will review agile methodologies and Git workflow, if students need the review.

* Otherwise, use the class time to help the students on their projects.

* There are occasional circumstances, such as an illness or a personal emergency, which might force a student to complete a group project on their own. In these circumstances, as the instructor, you will meet with the student and SSM to determine if completing the project independently is the best path forward. If it is, you will share adjusted project requirements and a grading rubric with the student.

## Time Tracker

| Start  | #  | Activity Name                               | Duration |
|---     |--- |---                                          |---       |
| 6:30PM | 0  | Office Hours                                | 0:30     |
| 7:00PM | 1  | Introduction                                | 0:05     |
| 7:05PM | 2  | Everyone Do: Review Agile Methodologies     | 0:20     |
| 7:25PM | 3  | Instructor Demo: Create a Repository        | 0:05     |
| 7:30PM | 4  | Instructor Demo: Branches and Pull Requests | 0:05     |
| 7:35PM | 5  | Recap                                       | 0:05     |
| 7:40PM | 6  | Student Do: Group Project                   | 1:20     |
| 9:00PM | 7  | End                                         | N/A      |

## Slide Deck

[15.1 Project 2 slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1efKg4eR5V2kMydvLuPdhmxDFlOVBIN9MqYVqnZ4GDqM/edit?usp=sharing)

---

## Class Instructions

### 1. Introduction (5 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Direct students to post individual questions in the Zoom chat to be addressed by TAs and/or at the end of class.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ How are you feeling about your progress so far?

    * 🙋 You've covered a lot in the past six weeks! You started this course with the goal of becoming a full-stack developer and you’ve reached that goal! You now have all of the skills you need to build full-stack web applications, and you could apply for any number of available jobs. This is an amazing accomplishment. You should be proud of how far you’ve come in just a little over three months!

    * ☝️ How comfortable do you feel with this project?

    * 🙋 Let's do Fist to Five together. If you are not feeling confident, hold up a fist (0). If you feel very confident, hold up an open hand (5).

### 2. Everyone Do: Review Agile Methodologies (20 min)

* Ask the students if they would like a brief review of agile methodologies that was covered in Module 7 during the first project. If students don't need this review, skip to Slide #27 where we discuss Project 2.

* If students would like a review, use the [Project 2 slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1efKg4eR5V2kMydvLuPdhmxDFlOVBIN9MqYVqnZ4GDqM/edit?usp=sharing) to review agile methodologies. Use the question prompts to facilitate the following discussion:

    * **What is a project?**: We're about to begin our second project. But first, do you remember how we define a project?

        * **Project**: A project is "any undertaking, carried out individually or collaboratively and possibly involving research or design, that is carefully planned (usually by a project team) to achieve a particular aim." (Source: [Wikipedia article on Project](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project))

    * **How do we carefully plan a project?**:

        * **Project management**: the practice of initiating, planning, executing, controlling, and closing the work of a team to achieve specific goals and meet specific success criteria at the specified time. The primary challenge of project management is to achieve all of the project goals within the given constraints. (Source: [Wikipedia article on Project Management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_management))

    * **What is the definition of "agile"?**: In general, what does it mean to be agile?

        * **agile [ aj-uhl, -ahyl ]**: According to dictionary.com, agile is defined as "quick and well-coordinated in movement."

    * **What is agile software development?**: What do we think "agile" means in terms of software development?

        * **Agile software development**: Agile software development is an iterative approach to developing software. Teams deliver value to their customers faster by working incrementally rather than working towards a big launch. Teams improve and respond to change by continuously evaluating project plans, requirements and user needs.

    * **What is iterative development?**: What is iteration? If iteration is the repetition of a process in order to generate a sequence of outcomes, what is iterative development?

        * **Iterative development**: In an iterative approach to development, working software is the primary measure of progress. Our goal is to build functional applications, even if they are very simple, like a skateboard. If we set out to build a sports car, we may never get there and we will have unhappy customers along the way.

    * **What is an MVP?**: It's not "most valuable player".

        * **Minimum Viable Product**: A minimum viable product is a product with just enough features to satisfy early customers and provide feedback for future product development. (Source: [Wikipedia article on MVP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_viable_product))

    * **How do we determine an MVP?**: How do we know what our minimum viable product is?

        * **Determining a Minimum Viable Product**: There are a lot of approaches to defining a minimum viable product, but we can simplify it to three questions: 1) who is your audience?; 2) what is the problem that the product will address?; 3) how does the product solve that problem?

    * **What is a user story?**:

        * **User stories**: In software development and product management, a user story is an informal, natural language description of one or more features of a software system. User stories are often written from the perspective of an end user or user of a system. (Source: [Wikipedia article on User Story](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_story))

    * **What are acceptance criteria?**:

        * **Acceptance criteria**: Acceptance criteria define the boundaries of a user story and are used to confirm when a story is completed and working as intended. (Source: [Wikipedia article on Acceptance Criteria](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_story#Acceptance_criteria))

    * **What is daily scrum?**:

        * **Stand-up meetings**: Stand-up meetings are used to hold teams accountable to each other. Team members make commitments to work on aspects of the project and report out progress. Stand-up meetings are useful in identifying issues as they arise and developing plans to resolve them. There are generally three questions each team member answers in a stand-up: 1) What was accomplished?; 2) What are your goals?; 3) Are there any obstacles to achieving your goals? (Source: [Wikipedia article on Stand-Up Meeting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stand-up_meeting))

    * **Project Timeline**: On the first day, we'll divide into groups, write a user story, create a wireframe, create a user flow diagram, and submit a project proposal for approval. We will continue to work on project development until project presentations on the sixth day.

    * **Get Professional**: Remember, projects are your portfolio pieces. Use project week as an opportunity to push yourself and prove your knowledge. Keep you MVP simple and add features as you go to avoid feature creep.

    * **Project Requirements**: Discuss the project requirements outlined in the slide deck.

    * **Presentation Requirements**: Discuss the presentation requirements outlined in the slide deck.

    * **Project Metrics**: Your project will be evaluated on its concept, design, functionality, collaboration, and presentation, as well as the quality of your repository and whether or not your application is deployed.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next review.

### 3. Instructor Demo: Create a Repository (5 min)

* Ask the students if they would like a brief review of creating repositories in GitHub, which was covered in Module 7 during the first project. If students don't need this review, skip to the next review on "Branches and Pull Requests".

* If students would like a review, navigate to [GitHub](https://github.com) in your browser and demonstrate the following:

    * If we navigate to github.com, we find several options for creating a new repository.

    * When we navigate to the "Settings" tab, we see several menu options, including "Manage access" on the left.

    * 🔑 If we navigate to the "Manage access" page we can invite group members to be project collaborators by entering their Github usernames one at a time. Each invited group member should receive an email they must open to accept the invitation.

    * When we navigate back to the repository's "Settings" page, we also see a "Branches" menu item in the left sidebar.

    * If we navigate to "Branches", we will find a "Branch Protection Rules" section. We want to select "main" from the dropdown.

    * 🔑 When we are presented with some options, we want to check the following: "Protect this branch", "Require pull request reviews before merging", and "Include administrators".

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Why do we want to protect the `main` branch?

    * 🙋 If completed successfully, no one should be able to push directly to the main branch. Instead, all changes must be made in the form of pull requests that are to be reviewed by another group member.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next review.

### 4. Instructor Demo: Branches and Pull Requests (5 min)

* Ask the students if they would like a brief review of creating branches and pull requests in GitHub that was covered in Module 7 during the first project. If students don't need this review, let them get started on working on their projects.

* If students would like a review, navigate to the repository from the previous activity and demonstrate the following:

    * Clone the project repo onto your computer and `cd` into it.

    * 🔑 Run the following command in your terminal to create and checkout to a new branch:

         ```
         git checkout -b add-html-skeleton
         ```

    * We should now be on a new branch named "add-html-skeleton". In order to verify this worked, run the following command in your terminal:

         ```
         git branch
         ```

    * We should see two branches listed: `main` and `add-html-skeleton`. The `add-html-skeleton` branch should have an asterisk to the left of it. This indicates that this is the branch you're currently on.

    * 🔑 At the root of the repo, create a new file named `index.html`. Inside this file, add code for a basic HTML skeleton and save.

    * 🔑 In your terminal, add and commit the changes. Then push up your code by running following in your terminal:

         ```
         git push origin add-html-skeleton
         ```

    * This should push up your code to to GitHub on a branch with the same name (`add-html-skeleton`).

    * 🔑 Go to the main repo page at github.com and click "Compare & pull request".

    * On the next screen, add a description of the work that was done and click the "Pull Request" button.

    * If completed successfully, we should see the pull request listed under the repo's "Pull request" tab.

    * 🔑 Now go to your GitHub repo's main page and go to the "Pull request" section. Select the `add-html-skeleton` pull request from the list.

    * At the next page select the option to see the "Files changed".

    * You should be presented with all of the files that were changed in this PR.

    * If there are any changes you would like made, you can click the line number to leave a comment the PR author will see and should address before approval. Otherwise click "Review changes" and approve the PR.

    * 🔑 Click the "Merge pull request" button to add the branch's changes into main. Once complete you can delete the feature branch from your machine by running the following in your terminal:

         ```
         git branch -D add-html-skeleton
         ```

    * Remember to use `git pull` on your main branch to update it.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Why do we want to review pull requests?

    * 🙋 To ensure the code to be merged is functional and does not create conflicts.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 5. Recap (5 min)

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ What topics did we review today? What are the main takeaways?

    * 🙋 We reviewed agile project management and collaborative workflow using Git branches and pull requests.

    * ☝️ You can now use the remaining time to work on your projects with your group. **Remember** next week's Required class is when everyone will present their projects, so be ready for that!

    * ☝️ If you need direction on deploying your application to Heroku, you can use this [Guide on how to connect a GitHub repo to Heroku](../../01-Class-Content/15-Project-2/04-Supplemental/GitHubHerokuConnect.md).
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

    * ☝️ You are also encouraged to continue to work on algorithms throughout this week and the next.
>>>>>>> 946ee3dcd9898819aaccdcb85722a838ae618d44

### 6. Student Do: Group Project (80 min)

* Direct the students to begin working in their project groups to finalize project ideas and start working on the MVP.

### 7. End

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete [this anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17).

---
© 2021 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
