# Lesson Plan: Welcome Session

## Overview 

Welcome to the Welcome Session! In this class, students will receive onboarding information from their Student Success Manager (SSM), review their system setup, and complete a GitHub and command-line activity. 

## Instructor Notes

Keep the following in mind as you prepare for today's class:

* The SSM will teach the first half of class. After they explain add/drop dates and invite questions, your portion of the class will begin. You can share your screen at this time.

* During your part of the lesson, students will check their system setup, review tools, and complete a GitHub activity.

* Some students might not have completed all of the installations before class. If that's the case, assure them that they can follow along with today's activity and then complete the installations after class. If they need help, encourage them to use office hours to work with an instructional staff member. 

* This will be the first time that many students see or use the command line and/or GitHub. Make sure to repeat instructions and concept explanations several times. Also, remember to take into account that macOS and Windows computers have slightly different commands.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will be able to:

* Explain virtual class best practices, including Slack and Zoom etiquette

* Demonstrate how to successfully navigate their boot camp portal

* Explain and locate Career Services that are available to them

* Explain the graduation requirements for this boot camp

* Create, clone, and alter a new repository using GitHub and the command line

## Slides

There are no slides for your portion of this class, but do share your screen to demonstrate the tools and activities as you go along. 

> **Note**: The SSM will present slides; these should have been shared with you before class.

---

## Class Instruction

### 1. SSM Do: Welcome Slides 

The SSM will present slides that cover graduation requirements, class expectations, and accessing boot camp material. 

### 2. Instructor Do: System Check 

Review the following list of tools with students, providing a brief explanation of what each one does and how it will be used during the boot camp. For each one, ask students to verify with a thumbs up or chat message that they have installed the tool and/or created an account:  

* LinkedIn
        
* GitHub

* Slack Desktop

* VS Code and the "Open in Browser" extension 

* Google Chrome

* *Windows only*: Git Bash

* *macOS only*: Xcode and Homebrew

When you're done, ask the following question and call on students for the answer:

* ☝️ What should you do if you still need help with installations? 

* 🙋 We should attend office hours to get help from an instructional staff member.

### 3. Everyone Do: GitHub Activity  

Next, you'll introduce students to GitHub and the command line by guiding them through some commands. As you go, keep the following in mind:

* Ask the class to follow along, completing each step on their own machines as you guide them. 

* Elaborate on each step as you demonstrate, making sure that students hear definitions and explanations of commands and concepts *more than once*. 

Share your screen to demonstrate the following common GitHub tasks:

1. Navigate to the GitHub website.
      
2. Create a new repository using the GitHub user interface.

3. Navigate the file system using the command line by typing `cd`, `ls`, and `pwd`.

4. Clone a repository using the `git clone` command.

5. Create a new file using the `touch` command.

6. Push changes to the GitHub repository using the `git status`, `git add .`, `git commit -m "message"`, and `git push origin main` commands.

When you're done, ask the following question and call on students for the answer:

* ☝️ Why do we use `git status` when working with GitHub repositories? 

* 🙋 The `git status` command reveals which files have been updated, which branch we are currently on, and whether or not that branch is up to date. 

### 4. Instructor Do: Wrap Up 

Use the following prompts to remind students of next steps:

* Review the Welcome Session Recap email that you will receive tomorrow from the SSM, which will contain a Slack invitation, class recording, and slide deck.
  	
* Get started with the Onboarding Survey and Module 1 lessons on Bootcamp Spot.
  
* Attend Install Weekend with your TAs.
  
* Come to your virtual classes next week!

---
© 2020 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
