# Module 22 Virtual Class: State

## Overview

In today's virtual class, students will create actions and reducers to start implementing global state.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will be able to:

* Create actions and reducers

* Write tests for reducers

## Instructor Notes

* Be sure to prepare and read over the activities before your class begins. Try to anticipate any questions students may have.

* Remind students that this module's Challenge is extra credit. If students choose to submit this Challenge, they will receive extra credit points on their final grade. However, if they choose not to submit it, their final grade will not be affected in any way. This Challenge is an opportunity for students to further practice their skills and get feedback on it, with the added incentive of receiving extra credit for the work.

* **Important**: React Router recently [upgraded to version 6](https://reactrouter.com/docs/en/v6/upgrading/v5#upgrade-to-react-router-v6) which includes breaking changes with `<Switch>`, `<Redirect> ` and other elements. The content of this week's in-class and module activities uses React Router version 5. To make sure that students can follow along with activities -- as currently written -- please instruct students to use this npm command to install React Router version 5: `npm install react-router-dom@5`.

* During activities, visit a few breakout rooms and check if the group is having any problems using `00-React-App` for their activities.

* **Important**: To avoid continuous NPM installs, all of today's activities' Solved and Unsolved folders include only a `src` folder. Similar to Module 20, use the provided web application [00-React-App](../../01-Class-Content/22-State/01-Activities/00-React-App) and swap out the `src` folder for each activity. It's recommended that you completely restart the dev server between activities.

* Note that the included `00-React-App` includes a service worker out of the box, which means that it offers progressive web app capabilities with little to no configuration. The service worker is no longer included in the default behavior for the most recent version of the `create-react-app` utility. Be sure to communicate this to students to avoid setting expectations that Create React App, by default, will allow for progressive web applications. To create a React application that is ready to be a progressive web application using the `create-react-app` utility, refer to the [Create React App documentation on creating a PWA](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/making-a-progressive-web-app/).

* Creating actions, reducers, and tests for reducers was covered in Lesson 1.

## Time Tracker

| Start  | #  | Activity Name                       | Duration |
|---     |--- |---                                  |---       |
| 6:30PM | 0  | Office Hours                        | 0:30     |
| 7:00PM | 1  | Everyone Do: Career Connection      | 0:20     |
| 7:20PM | 2  | Instructor Do: Student Check-In     | 0:05     |
| 7:25PM | 3  | Instructor Demo: Actions Reducers   | 0:05     |
| 7:30PM | 4  | Student Do: Actions Reducers        | 0:15     |
| 7:45PM | 5  | Instructor Review: Actions Reducers | 0:10     |
| 7:55PM | 6  | Instructor Demo: Test Reducers      | 0:05     |
| 8:00PM | 7  | Student Do: Test Reducers           | 0:15     |
| 8:15PM | 8  | Instructor Review: Test Reducers    | 0:10     |
| 8:25PM | 9  | Recap                               | 0:05     |
| 8:30PM | 10 | Challenge Review                    | 0:30     |
| 9:00PM | 11 | End                                 | N/A      |

---

## Class Instructions

### 1. Everyone Do: Career Connection (20 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Invite students to post questions in the Zoom chat so TAs and/or the instructor can address them at the end of class.

* Open the lesson's [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BmyoxhAugArTWcg5NVtZOaDJ3YJX4g12vi_k0B9lZRY/edit?usp=sharing) and walk through the following slides on foundation setting:

    **Big Picture**: This is an opportunity to look at the big picture of where students are in the course. Take a moment to discuss a few real-world examples of why this week's topics are valuable.

    **Boot Camp Pointers**: Review some logistics that will help students stay on track. This is an opportunity to speak to what students might need at this particular point in the course.

    **This Week**: Review the key skills students will be learning this week.

    **This Week's Assignment**: Give a quick summary of this week's Challenge assignment and describe how the skills they learn throughout the week will be applied to it.

    **Career Connection**: Reinforce that students will use the skills they learn this week throughout their careers. It's important for them to know the "why" and "how" behind the "what." Give examples of how these skills are used on the job. If you feel comfortable, share examples of how you have used them in your professional career.

    * This week, students will learn about global state management using the React Context API and Redux. Let them know that global state isn't always necessary for smaller applications, but knowing how to work with it will give them a competitive advantage when applying for jobs because it is very common at many companies.

    * This is the last week that students will see async content from career services. Remind them that by now they should have completed the following materials:

        * Resume
        * Portfolio
        * GitHub profile with 5&ndash;6 pinned repositories
        * LinkedIn profile

    * Each of these pieces should have been checked off by a Career Materials Advisor (CMA) so that the student can be determined as employer-ready. Only then will they gain access to resources such as our employer referral program. Encourage students to complete and submit these tasks ASAP if they have not already done so!

    * Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

        * ☝ Who here is employer-ready? What does it mean to be employer-ready?

          **Note**: You will likely get a mix of answers from students who a) are employer-ready, b) are not employer-ready, or perhaps even c) don't know what employer-ready is.

        * 🙋 **Employer-ready** means that you have completed the required professional materials as laid out by career services. For web developers, this means having the following:

            * Resume
            * GitHub profile
            * Portfolio

    * Remind students that they need to submit all of these materials to a Career Material Advisor (CMA) via Canvas or BootcampSpot (depending on your class) in order to have them approved. Once they are all approved, students should check about employer-ready status with their Career Coach.

    * We know from our data that students who put in the work to become employer-ready and open up referrals and other career services resources are among the most successful in job placement rates!

    * Encourage students to become employer-ready by submitting their materials this week! For all those who have not done so, extend the challenge to complete these by end of the week and submit to a Career Material Advisor.

    **How to Succeed This Week**: Remind students that they might experience moments of frustration as they learn complex concepts and tools, and that these times are actually proven opportunities to deepen knowledge. Consider sharing something about your personal learning journey. This helps students recognize that everyone starts somewhere and that they are not alone.

    **Today's Objectives:** Outline the concepts that will be covered in today's lesson. Remind students that they can find the relevant activity files in the "Getting Ready for Class" page in their course content.

### 2. Instructor Do: Student Check-In (5 min)

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ How are you feeling about your progress so far?

  * 🙋 We are adding another layer to our full-stack skill set. It's important to look back at what we accomplished and acknowledge that it is a lot! It’s also okay to feel overwhelmed&mdash;as long as you don’t give up.

  * ☝️ How comfortable do you feel with this topic?

  * 🙋 Let's do Fist to Five together. If you are not feeling confident, hold up a fist (0). If you feel very confident, hold up an open hand (5).

### 3. Instructor Demo: Actions Reducers (5 min)

* Open `01-Actions-Reducers/Solved` in your IDE and demonstrate the following:

    * 🔑 Similar to Module 20, today we will be using the provided [00-React-App](../../01-Class-Content/22-State/01-Activities/00-React-App) app for all of our activities.

    * 🔑 First, we copy the [src](../../01-Class-Content/22-State/01-Activities/01-Actions-Reducers/Solved/src) folder and paste it into the `00-React-App` app inside the `client` folder.

    * 🔑 Then we navigate to `00-React-App` in our command line and run `npm install` and `npm run seed` to set up the app.

    * 🔑 Start the app in dev mode by running `npm start`. The app will open automatically in the browser at <http://localhost:3000>

    * 🔑 We see a list of books. If we click one, it will render a new page with details of the book. Notice that the header also changes to the title of the book you are viewing. When you go back to the list of books, the header reverts to "Now Viewing: Your book list".

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Where have we used this before?

    * 🙋 We learned about actions and reducers in Lesson 1 as we prepared to implement global state for our `Shop-Shop` app.

    * ☝️ How does this activity equip us for the Challenge?

    * 🙋 It will help us practice incorporating a global state, whether that's using React Context API or Redux. The concept is similar and both use actions and reducers.

    * ☝️ How would we build this?

    * 🙋 We will need to create actions and reducers in preparation for setting up the global state.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 4. Student Do: Actions Reducers (15 min)

* Divide students into breakout rooms.

* Direct students to the activity instructions found in `01-Actions-Reducers/README.md`, which are also shown here:

   ```md
   # Actions and Reducers

   In this activity, you will create actions and reducers in order to implement a global store for the `00-React-App` app.

   ## Instructions

   * **Note** You will be using one web application, [00-React-App](../00-React-App), for all of our activities today.

   * Copy the [src](Unsolved/src) folder and paste it into the `00-React-App` app inside the [client](../00-React-App/client) folder.

   * Navigate to [01-Activities/00-React-App](../00-React-App) and start the app in dev mode by running `npm start` from your command line.

   * Check out the application running on <http://localhost:3000> in your browser.

   * Open [App.js](../00-React-App/client/src/App.js) and notice how we are managing the state and what components are using it.

   * In the [utils](../00-React-App/client/src/utils) folder, create two files: `actions.js` and `reducers.js`.

     * In `actions.js`, define two actions: `UPDATE_BOOKS` and `UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK`.

     * In `reducers.js`, create a function called `reducer()` that takes in the `state` and an `action`.

       * Remember to import the two actions we created along with `useReducer` from `react` on top of the page.

       * Use a `switch` statement to compare the `action.type` with our two actions.

       * For `UPDATE_BOOKS`, return a new object with a copy of the `state` argument and set the `books` key to a new array with the `action.books` value spread across it.

       * For `UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK`, return a new object with a copy of the `state` and set the `currentBook` key to `action.currentBook`.

       * Export the function `useBookReducer()` that utilizes the `useReducer()` Hook to initialize our global state object and update the state by running it through our `reducer()` function.

   * Check the application running the browser to make sure everything still compiles and functions correctly.

   * Press `CTRL + C` to stop the server before moving on to the next activity.

   ## Hint(s)

   * You can refer to the [React Docs on useReducer](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#usereducer)
   ```

### 5. Instructor Review: Actions Reducers (10 min)

* Bring students back from breakout rooms.

* Use the prompts and talking points (:key:) below to review the following key points (✔️):

    * ✔️ `UPDATE_BOOKS` and `UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK` actions

    * ✔️ `reducer()`

    * ✔️ `useBookReducer()`

* Open `01-Actions-Reducers/Solved/src/App.js` in your IDE and explain the following:

    * Before we get into the actions and reducers, notice how our app is currently handling the state. To access the `currentBook` or to `setCurrentBook`, it needs to be passed as props to the components below.

       ```js
       function App() {
         const [currentBook, setCurrentBook] = useState('');

         <Header currentBook={currentBook} />

         <Detail
           setCurrentBook={setCurrentBook}
           currentBook={currentBook}
         />
       ```

    * This is certainly not the most efficient way to handle state. So we are going to implement a global state so that it is easier to access and update the state from anywhere in the application. To do that, we first need to create actions!

* Open `01-Actions-Reducers/Solved/src/utils/actions.js` in your IDE and explain the following:

    * Think about what kind of actions we need to take in order to access or update the state. That should drive you to create the right actions. In our case, we need to keep a list of all books and also one current book that the user chooses to view.

    * 🔑 `UPDATE_BOOKS` will get the list of books and store it in our global state. `UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK` will set the `currentBook` to what the user chose. For now, let's set up these actions.

       ```js
       export const UPDATE_BOOKS = 'UPDATE_BOOKS';
       export const UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK = 'UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK';
       ```

    *  Now let's write the reducers to go with these actions!

* Open `01-Actions-Reducers/Solved/src/utils/reducers.js` in your IDE and explain the following:

    * First, we need to import `useReducer` from React as well as our actions.

       ```js
       import { useReducer } from 'react';
       import { UPDATE_BOOKS, UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK } from './actions';
       ```

    * 🔑 Next we create the `reducer()` function that takes in the state and an action. We use a `switch` statement to compare the value of the `action.type` with our actions.

       ```js
       export const reducer = (state, action) => {
         switch (action.type) {
             case UPDATE_BOOKS:

             case UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK:

             default:
         }
       }
       ```

    * For `UPDATE_BOOKS`, think about what we are trying to accomplish. We want to have an updated list of books. So we should return a new object with a copy of the state using the spread `...` operator and then set the `books` key to the value of a new array with the `action.books` value spread across it.

       ```js
       case UPDATE_BOOKS:
         return {
           ...state,
           books: [...action.books],
         };
       ```

    * For `UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK`, we want to store the current book that the user chooses. So again, we should return a new object with a copy of the state, and then set the `currentBook` key to the value of `action.currentBook`.

       ```js
       case UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK:
         return {
           ...state,
           currentBook: { ...action.currentBook },
         };
       ```

    * We should have a `default` case just in case we accidentally execute an action that isn't predefined. The `default` case will simply return the state as is.

       ```js
       default:
           return state;
       ```

    * 🔑 Finally, we export the function `useBookReducer()` that will initialize our global state object and provide us with the functionality for updating the state by running it through the `reducer()` function we just created.

       ```js
       export function useBookReducer(initialState) {
         return useReducer(reducer, initialState);
       }
       ```

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ How is the `useReducer` Hook similar to the `useState` Hook?

    * 🙋 The `useReducer` Hook is a more in-depth way of using the `useState` Hook. `useState` was good for managing simpler amounts of state, such as form field values. But when we are sharing state across components, `useReducer` will come in handy.

    * ☝️ What can we do if we don't completely understand this?

    * 🙋 We can refer to Lesson 1, read the [React Docs on useReducer](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#usereducer), and stay for Office Hours to ask for help.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 6. Instructor Demo: Test Reducers (5 min)

* Open `02-Test-Reducers/Solved` in your IDE and demonstrate the following:

    * 🔑 Again, we will need to copy the `src` folder and replace the `src` folder from the last activity in the `00-React-App` app with this one.

    * 🔑 Navigate to the [00-React-App/client](../../01-Class-Content/22-State/01-Activities/00-React-App/client) directory in your command line and run `npm run test`.

    * 🔑 You should see that both tests for the reducers passed.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Where have we used this before?

    * 🙋 We created tests for reducers in Lesson 1.

    * ☝️ How does this activity equip us for the Challenge?

    * 🙋 Writing tests will help us to test the functionality of our reducers to see if we get the intended output. This will also help us understand the purpose of reducer functions.

    * ☝️ How would we build this?

    * 🙋 We will need to write two tests for each reducer.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 7. Student Do: Test Reducers (15 min)

* Divide students into breakout rooms.

* Direct students to the activity instructions found in `02-Test-Reducers/README.md`, which are also shown here:

   ```md
   # Test Reducers

   In this activity, you will create tests to check if the reducers we created in the previous activity will work properly in production.

   ## Instructions

   * **Note** You will be using one web application, [00-React-App](../00-React-App), for all of our activities today.

   * Copy the [src](Unsolved/src) folder and paste it into the `00-React-App` app inside the [client](../00-React-App/client) folder.

   * In the [src](../00-React-App/client/src/) folder, create a new folder for tests, and inside it, create a file called `reducers.test.js`.

     * Import the reducer and the two actions at the top of the page.

     * Create the `initialState` to use for the tests. Include a `books` array and `currentBook` object in this sample of global state.

     * Write a test for `UPDATE_BOOKS`. Check the `BookList` and `Detail` pages to see when we would need to use this action. Think carefully about how we would use this action and what we want to test.

     * Write a test for `UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK`. You don't have to change all of the fields of the `currentBook` for our testing purposes. You can change just one field, like the `title`, and test that.

   * Navigate to the [client](../00-React-App/client) directory and run `npm run test`. Check if all of the tests passed.

   ## Hint(s)

   * You can refer to the [Create React App Docs on Running Tests](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/running-tests/).
   ```

### 8. Instructor Review: Test Reducers (10 min)

* Bring students back from breakout rooms.

* Use the prompts and talking points (:key:) below to review the following key points (✔️):

    * ✔️ `initialState`

    * ✔️ Test for `UPDATE_BOOKS`

    * ✔️ Test for `UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK`

* Open `02-Test-Reducer/Solved/src/_tests_/reducers.test.js` in your IDE and explain the following:

    * Be sure to have created a folder called `__tests__`, and inside that folder create a file called `reducers.test.js`. Jest will look for that when running the tests.

    * We import the reducer and our two actions at the top of the page.

       ```js
       import { reducer } from '../utils/reducers';
       import { UPDATE_BOOKS, UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK } from '../utils/actions';
       ```

    * 🔑 We create the `initialState` for our tests to use. We need to include a `books` array, which we can set to an empty array, and a `currentBook` object.

       ```js
       const initialState = {
         books: [],
         currentBook: {
           _id: '1',
           title: 'Book 1',
           author: 'Author One',
           pages: 123,
           description: 'This is Book 1 for testing purposes'
         }
       };
       ```

    * 🔑 Once we have that set up, we can write our first test for `UPDATE_BOOKS`. Think about what this action is doing. We are storing the list of books in `books` and if we add or take out any books from that list, this action should update the state and return the current `books` array.

    * So let's test that! We can simply add a couple of empty objects to the `books` array.

       ```js
       test('UPDATE_BOOKS', () => {
         let newState = reducer(initialState, {
           type: UPDATE_BOOKS,
           books: [{}, {}]
         });

         expect(newState.books.length).toBe(2);
         expect(initialState.books.length).toBe(0);
       });
       ```

    * 🔑 Then we also need to test the `UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK` action. Again think about what this action is doing. It is updating the `currentBook` with whatever book the user chooses. For our testing purposes, we don't have to replace the whole `currentBook` object, but maybe just the title.

       ```js
       test('UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK', () => {
         let newState = reducer(initialState, {
           type: UPDATE_CURRENT_BOOK,
           currentBook: { title: 'Book 2' }
         });

         expect(newState.currentBook.title).toBe('Book 2');
         expect(initialState.currentBook.title).toBe('Book 1');
       });
       ```

    * But ideally, we should've replaced the whole content of `currentBook` and then tested one field to see if the `currentBook` indeed updated. But for the sake of time, we simplified the test.

* Navigate to `00-React-App/client` and run `npm run test`. Check if all of the tests passed.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Why are we creating a new state object when we are updating the state?

    * 🙋 Remember that state is read-only. We don't alter the state directly. We make a copy of the state, make changes, then use that new state.

    * ☝️ What can we do if we don't completely understand this?

    * 🙋 We can refer to Lesson 1, read the [Create React App Docs on Running Tests](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/running-tests/), and stay for Office Hours to ask for help.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 9. Recap (5 min)

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ What topics did we cover today? What are the main takeaways?

    * 🙋 We covered actions and reducers in preparation for setting up global state. We also wrote tests to check if the reducers work properly.

    * ☝️ What do you think is okay to not completely understand?

    * 🙋 All of it! The field of web development is very wide and rapidly evolving. Unless you choose to specialize, it's not necessary to know any one area completely to be successful.

    * ☝️ Why is it important to do as much of the lesson material before class as possible?

    * 🙋 It's important both to be fully prepared to start the Challenge and because it will prepare you for your future career as a web developer. We cover a lot of material in the boot camp. Lessons are intentionally designed to give each topic an optimal amount of depth and scope so that you have a solid foundation to build upon in future lessons. The skills you learn in the lessons are cutting-edge, real-world skills that you will use in your career as a full-stack web developer.

    * ☝️ Where in the asynchronous lessons can you learn more?

    * 🙋 All of this was covered in Lesson 1.

    * ☝️ What excites you about the remaining lessons for this week?

* Use student answers to transition to Office Hours.

### 10. Challenge Review (30 min)

* Take this time to help get students unblocked on the current Challenge that they are working through.

* Remind students that this module's Challenge is extra credit. If students choose to submit this Challenge, they will receive extra credit points on their final grade. However, if they choose not to submit it, their final grade will not be affected in any way. This Challenge is an opportunity for students to further practice their skills and get feedback on it, with the added incentive of receiving extra credit for the work.

* Expect that students may ask for the following:

  * Further review on a particular subject

  * Debugging assistance

  * Help with computer issues

  * Guidance with a particular tool

### 11. End

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete [this anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17).

---
© 2021 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
