# 22.2 Virtual Class: State

## Overview

In today's virtual class, students will continue to review key state management concepts, including reducers, actions, and the `useReducer` Hook.

Students will also form their own project groups and review the project requirements.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will be able to:

* Explain and use actions with a reducer function.

* Explain reducers and use them with the `useReducer` Hook.

## Instructor Notes

* Be sure to prepare and read over the activities before your class begins. Try to anticipate any questions students may have.

* **Important**: To avoid continuous npm installs, all of this today's activities' `Solved` and `Unsolved` folders include only a `src` folder. For each activity, swap out the `src` folder in `00-practice-app`. It's recommended that you completely restart the dev server between activities.

* During activities, visit a few breakout rooms and check if the group is having any problems using `00-practice-app` for their activities.

* Be prepared to review the [project requirements](../../01-Class-Content/22-State/04-Supplemental/Project-Requirements.md).

* **Important**: [React Router recently upgraded to version 6](https://reactrouter.com/docs/en/v6/upgrading/v5#upgrade-to-react-router-v6), which includes important changes to `<Switch>`, `<Redirect> `, and other elements. The content of this week's in-class and module activities uses React Router version 5. To make sure that students can follow along with activities (as currently written), please instruct students to use the following npm command to install React Router version 5: `npm install react-router-dom@5`.

* This week's Challenge is refactoring the `Shop-Shop` e-commerce platform that students worked on throughout this module to use Redux. They will need to read through the official Redux documentation by themselves and find the information that can help them accomplish their task.

* Implementing global state using React Context API was covered in Lesson 1.

## Office Hours

Encourage students to work on the remaining module algorithms during Office Hours. Review the algorithm solutions 5–10 minutes before class begins.

## Time Tracker

| Start  | #   | Activity Name                            | Duration |
| ------ | --- | ---------------------------------------- | -------- |
| 6:30PM | 0   | Office Hours                             | 0:30     |
| 7:00PM | 1   | Introduction                             | 0:10     |
| 7:10PM | 2   | Review Current Challenge                 | 0:05     |
| 7:15PM | 3   | Instructor Demo: Reducers                | 0:05     |
| 7:20PM | 4   | Student Do: Reducers                     | 0:15     |
| 7:35PM | 5   | Instructor Review: Reducers              | 0:10     |
| 7:45PM | 6   | Instructor Demo: Actions                 | 0:05     |
| 7:50PM | 7   | Student Do: Actions                      | 0:15     |
| 8:05PM | 8   | Instructor Review: Actions               | 0:10     |
| 8:15PM | 9   | Instructor Demo: `useReducer` Hook       | 0:05     |
| 8:20PM | 10  | Student Do: `useReducer` Hook            | 0:20     |
| 8:40PM | 11  | Instructor Review: `useReducer` Hook     | 0:10     |
| 8:50PM | 12  | Recap & Promote Resources                | 0:05     |
| 8:55PM | 13  | Introduce Group Project                  | 0:05     |
| 9:00PM | 14  | End                                      | N/A      |

---

## Class Instructions

### 1. Introduction (10 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ What did you learn this week? How would you explain it to your friends and family?

  * 🙋 We learned how to incorporate global state in our application so that we can avoid prop drilling. We learned how to create and use actions and reducers. We created a global store and incorporated indexedDB for offline capabilities. We even used Stripe API to process payments! We are moving fast compared to traditional learners. It’s okay to feel overwhelmed as long as we don’t give up!

  * ☝️ Did anyone have an "A-ha!" or "Eureka!" moment this week? When was it and why did things suddenly click for you?

  * 🙋 Eureka moments happen when we try different approaches to a problem or change the way we're thinking about it.

  * ☝️ Did anyone feel stuck this week? How did you get unstuck?

  * 🙋 It's easy to get stuck when you're learning web development. It's important to learn how to get unstuck because it happens to the pros too. Rather than getting lost in search results, consult the tool's official documentation first. Then ask for help from instructional staff or your peers. Study groups are great because explaining your problems to someone else often reveals the solution.

### 2. Review Current Challenge (5 min)

* Navigate to `01-Class-Content/22-State/02-Challenge/Main` from the command line and run `npm start`.

  * We see the module project we've been working on throughout this module. But the difference here is that this application uses Redux to manage state instead of using Context API.

  * The real challenge is to implement Redux by yourself by reading through the official documentation.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ What recently acquired skills will help us build this Challenge?

  * 🙋 The concept of global state and using actions and reducers to update the state is the same whether you use React Context API or Redux. So that general knowledge of global state will help you with this Challenge.

  * ☝️ How are these skills relevant to a career in web development?

  * 🙋 This last part of the boot camp has been focused more about being employer-ready than learning any new technologies or skills. We have been improving the skills you've already learned throughout this boot camp. But at a job, you will need not only coding skills but the ability to research, read documentation, and find the right information to solve your problem. That is the purpose of this Challenge: to help you practice reading official documentation and using that knowledge to code.

  * ☝️ How will this Challenge improve your portfolio?

  * 🙋 It will show your knowledge and ability to incorporate not only React Context API but also Redux to implement global state.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 3. Instructor Demo: Reducers (5 min)

* Open `03-Reducers/Solved` in your IDE and demonstrate the following:

  * 🔑 Today, we will be using the [00-practice-app](../../01-Class-Content/22-State/01-Activities/00-practice-app) application from the previous class for all of our activities.

  * 🔑 First, we copy the [src](../../01-Class-Content/22-State/01-Activities/03-Reducers/Solved/src) folder and paste it into the `00-practice-app` app inside the `client` folder.

  * 🔑 Then, we navigate to `00-practice-app` in our command line and run `npm install` to set up the app.

  * 🔑 Start the app in dev mode by running `npm start`. The app will open automatically in the browser at <http://localhost:3000>

  * 🔑 We can see that we are working with the same student list application, but this version includes a reducer function to handle the `students` state. The reducer hasn't been implemented into the front end logic just yet, but we do have some tests to run our code against.

  * 🔑 A reducer is a function that accepts state and an action, and returns a new state object. Reducers also keep all of the actions that can be performed on the state object in one place within our code.

* Press `control + C` to stop the app, and then run `npm run test` from the command line to show that there are tests included with this activity.

  * When we run the tests, we can see there is a new file for `reducers.test.js` in the `03-Reducers/` folder:

    ```bash
    PASS  src/__tests__/reducers.test.js
    PASS  src/__tests__/app.test.js

    Test Suites: 2 passed, 2 total
    Tests:       3 passed, 3 total
    Snapshots:   0 total
    Time:        1.9 s
    Ran all test suites related to changed files.
    ```

  * 🔑 We can see that the tests pass, but that is because this is the solved version. In the upcoming activity, you will be diagnosing and fixing an issue with the reducer function that causes the unsolved version to fail.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ Where have we used this before?

  * 🙋 We use Context API to create the global state for the `Shop-Shop` app in Lesson 1.

  * ☝️ How does this activity equip us for the Challenge?

  * 🙋 We will need to understand the concept and functionality of a global state in order to use Redux for the Challenge. The syntax will be different, but the concept will be the same.

  * ☝️ How would we build this?

  * 🙋 We need to write code in the `reducers.js` file that would allow the tests to pass.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 4. Student Do: Reducers (15 min)

* Break your students into pairs that will work together on this activity.

* Direct students to the activity instructions found in `03-Reducers/README.md`, which are also shown here:


  ```md
  # 🐛 Reducer Fails to Add or Remove Students

  Work with a partner to resolve the following issues:

  * As a developer, I want to implement reducers into my application to update global state.

  * As a developer, I want to be able to diagnose and fix the issue associated with the reducer that is causing the tests to fail.

  ## Setup

  Before you begin, copy the `src` directory from the activity folder into `00-practice-app`.

  ## Expected Behavior

  When the tests are run, all of them should pass.

  ## Actual Behavior

  The suite that tests the reducer is failing for adding and removing student functionality.

  ## Steps to Reproduce the Problem

  To reproduce the problem, follow these steps:

  1. Navigate to the `Unsolved/` folder and run `npm install`.

  2. Run `npm run test`.

  3. Note that the test fails.

  ---

  ## 💡 Hints

  * How does the test's error message inform us where the error is occurring?

  * How can we use `switch` statements to an advantage in this activity?

  ## 🏆 Bonus

  If you have completed this activity, work through the following challenge with your partner to further your knowledge:

  * Where have we seen the term "reduce" elsewhere in Javascript?

  Use [Google](https://www.google.com) or another search engine to research this.
  ```

* While breaking everyone into groups, be sure to remind students and the rest of the instructional staff that questions on Slack or otherwise are welcome and will be handled. It's a good way for your team to prioritize students who need extra help.

### 5. Instructor Review: Reducers (10 min)

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ How comfortable do you feel with reducers? (Poll via Fist to Five, Slack, or Zoom)

* Assure students that we will cover the solution to help solidify their understanding. If questions remain, remind them to use Office Hours to get extra help!

* Use the prompts and talking points (🔑) below to review the following key points:

  * ✔️ Arguments passed to `reducer`

  * ✔️ Pure functions

* First, run `npm run test` in the command-line window to demonstrate that the tests are currently failing.

  * Reiterate to students that the goal of this activity is to write code in the `reducers.js` file that would allow the tests to pass.

* Open `src/utils/StudentContext.js` in your IDE and explain the following:

  * The application hasn't implemented the reducer yet and is still using methods inside the `StudentContext`.

  * The idea is to extract that functionality into a single reducer function. Let's look at those methods to see what we need to include in the reducer function:

    ```js
    const addStudent = (student) => {
      const id = students.length + 1;

      const newStudent = { ...student, id };

      setStudents([...students, newStudent]);
    };

    const removeStudent = (id) => {
      const newStudentsList = [
        ...students.filter((student) => student.id !== id),
      ];

      setStudents(newStudentsList);
    };
    ```

  * Now that we know we need the reducer to handle adding and removing students, let's navigate to `reducers.js` and create the `reducer`.

* Open `src/utils/reducers.js` in your IDE and explain the following:

  * First, we import the action variables from `actions.js` into the file:

    ```js
    import { ADD_STUDENT, REMOVE_STUDENT } from './actions';
    ```

  * Then we set up the reducer function, which accepts `state` and an `action`:

    ```js
    export default function reducer(state, action) { ... }
    ```

  * The first action, `ADD_STUDENT`,  returns a new copy of state with an updated `students` array.

  * We populate the `students` array with existing students using the spread operator, and we add the new student from the `payload` property of the `action` object:

    ```js
    switch (action.type) {
      case ADD_STUDENT:
        return {
          ...state,
          students: [...state.students, action.payload],
        };
    ...
    };
    ```

  * The other action to account for is `REMOVE_STUDENT`, which also returns a new copy of state with an updated `students` array.

  * First, we populate the `students` array with existing students, as long as they don't have the `id` that was included in `action.payload`:

    ```js
    case REMOVE_STUDENT:
      return {
        ...state,
        students: [...state.students].filter(
         (student) => student.id !== action.payload
        ),
      };
    ```

  * Finally, we add a `default` case, which will prevent the application from breaking if we happen to pass an invalid `action` to the reducer:

    ```js
      switch (action.type) {
        ...

      default:
        return state;
    }
    ```

  * 🔑 Remember that even though the tests are passing now, this activity only involves setting up the reducer. Later, we will connect the application to the reducer.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ Why is it important to keep the original state intact when working with reducer functions?

  * 🙋 This allows the reducer to be a pure function, and keeps the state that we pass to the reducer intact.

  * ☝️ What can we do if we don't completely understand this?

  * 🙋 We can refer to supplemental material, read the [Redux documentation on reducers](https://redux.js.org/faq/reducers/), and attend Office Hours to ask for help.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 6. Instructor Demo: Actions (5 min)

* Open `04-Actions/Unsolved/utils/actions.js` in your IDE and explain the following:

  * 🔑 It is common practice to set variable names for each kind of action in a new file called `actions.js`.

  * Doing so allows those actions to be referenced by other parts of your application as it grows in scale, as noted by the `export` statement before each action:

    ```js
    export const ADD_STUDENT = 'ADD_STUDENT';
    export const REMOVE_STUDENT = 'REMOVE_STUDENT';
    ```

  * In this activity, you will annotate the actions in `actions.js` in order to help other developers understand what each action, and the corresponding reducer, is doing. This is often a best practice to make sure that other developers understand the application's behavior.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ How would you describe what an action is to someone like your best friend or a family member?

  * 🙋 Actions are events that trigger specific work to happen inside an application.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 7. Student Do: Actions (15 min)

* Break your students into pairs that will work together on this activity.

* Direct students to the activity instructions found in `04-Actions/README.md`, which are also shown here:

  ````md
  # 📐 Add Comments to Each Action Inside the React App

  Work with a partner to add comments to `/utils/actions.js` to describe what each action's inputs are and what the net effect will be on the new state.

  ## Setup

  Before you begin, copy the `src` directory from the activity folder into `00-practice-app`.

  ## 💡 Notes

  Check `/utils/reducers.js` and the associated test file to learn more about each action.

  ---

  ## 🏆 Bonus

  If you have completed this activity, work through the following questions with your partner to further your knowledge:

  * What are some best practices for creating and managing actions?

  Use [Google](https://www.google.com) or another search engine to research this.
  ```

* While breaking everyone into groups, be sure to remind students and the rest of the instructional staff that questions on Slack or otherwise are welcome and will be handled. It's a good way for your team to prioritize students who need extra help.

### 8. Instructor Review: Actions (10 min)

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ How comfortable do you feel with actions? (Poll via Fist to Five, Slack, or Zoom)

* Assure students that we will cover the solution to help solidify their understanding. If questions remain, remind them to use Office Hours to get extra help!

* Use the prompts and talking points (🔑) below to review the following key points:

  * ✔️ Actions

  * ✔️ `switch` statements

* Open `04-Actions/Solved/src/utils/actions.js` in your IDE and explain the following:

  * There are several variables listed in this file. The assignment calls for adding comments to describe the functionality of each action:

    ```js
    export const ADD_STUDENT = 'ADD_STUDENT';
    export const REMOVE_STUDENT = 'REMOVE_STUDENT';
    export const UPDATE_STUDENT = 'UPDATE_STUDENT';
    export const ADD_MAJOR = 'ADD_MAJOR';
    export const REMOVE_MAJOR = 'REMOVE_MAJOR';
    ```

  * 🔑 To intelligently describe the functionality of each action, we first have to review what the reducer is doing when it encounters these actions.

  * The first one listed is `ADD_STUDENT`. Let's look at the corresponding code block inside the reducer function.

* Open `04-Actions/Solved/src/utils/reducers.js` in your IDE and explain the following:

  * To calculate the `newStudentId`, we have to rely on the `students` array inside the state. We take the last index position in the array and add 1 to it to generate the new `id`.

  * Then we create a `newStudent` object with the content of the `action.payload` and the `newStudentId`.

  * Finally, we return a copy of state with an updated `students` array that now includes the `newStudent` object:

    ```js
    case ADD_STUDENT: {
        const newStudentId = state.students[state.students.length - 1].id + 1;

        const newStudent = { ...action.payload, id: newStudentId };

        return {
          ...state,
          students: [...state.students, newStudent],
        };
      }
    ```

  * The next action to annotate is the `REMOVE_STUDENT` action. The first part of this action is to make a copy of the `students` array and filter out the `id` included in `action.payload`.

  * The way the `REMOVE_STUDENT` action is set up, we can immediately return a copy of `state` with the updated `students` array, performing the filter inline:

    ```js
    case REMOVE_STUDENT: {
        return {
          ...state,
          students: [...state.students].filter(
            (student) => student.id !== action.payload
          ),
        };
      }
    ```

  * The next action in `action.js` is `UPDATE_STUDENT`. Let's look at the code block for this one, inside the reducer function.

  * The first thing that happens is that we isolate the index position for the student that we want to update.

  * We can get the index from an array method called `findIndex()`. This method returns the index position based on a callback passed to the method. In this case, we want to find the index of the student `id` that matches the `id` found in `action.payload`:

    ```js
    const studentIndex = state.students.findIndex(
          (student) => student.id === action.payload.id
        );
    ```

  * Next, we create an object that will contain the updated student. This uses the `studentIndex` that we found, along with the body of `action.payload`:

    ```js
    const updatedStudent = {
          ...state.students[studentIndex],
          ...action.payload,
        };
    ```

  * Then we create a copy of the `students` array and inject the updated student into it:

    ```js
    const newStudentsList = [...state.students];
    newStudentsList[studentIndex] = updatedStudent;
    ```

  * Finally, we return a copy of state with the new `students` array, which we call `newStudentsList`:

    ```js
    return {
      ...state,
      students: newStudentsList,
    };
    ```

  * For the `ADD_MAJOR` action, we immediately return a copy of state and an updated `majors` array that contains the major passed into the `action.payload` object:

    ```js
    case ADD_MAJOR: {
        return {
          ...state,
          majors: [...state.majors, action.payload],
        };
      }
    ```

  * The `REMOVE_MAJOR` action is very similar. However, instead of returning a copy of the `majors` array from `state` and the `action.payload`, we perform a filter on the array, removing the `major` provided in `action.payload`:

    ```js
    case REMOVE_MAJOR: {
        return {
          ...state,
          majors: [...state.majors].filter((major) => major !== action.payload),
        };
      }
    ```

  * That was the last action to annotate, but note that you should always have a default case in your `switch` statement, to account for unknown action types.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ Why might it be useful to annotate the actions that will be used in your reducer function?

  * 🙋 Actions can be used in multiple places when creating a Redux application. Annotating them is good practice to help other developers interface with your code.

  * ☝️ What can we do if we don't completely understand this?

  * 🙋 We can refer to supplemental material, read the [Redux documentation on actions](https://redux.js.org/faq/actions/), and attend Office Hours to ask for help.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 9. Instructor Demo: `useReducer` Hook (5 min)

* Copy the [src](../../01-Class-Content/22-State/01-Activities/05-useReducer/Solved/src) folder and paste it into the `00-practice-app` app inside the `client` folder.

* Navigate to `00-practice-app` in your command line and run `npm install` and `npm start`.

  * In this demo, we are introducing a new React Hook called `useReducer`. This is where we can start to use the `reducer` that we have been making.

  * The `useReducer` Hook accepts a `reducer` function and an initial state object as an argument and returns an array that contains the `state` object and a `dispatch()` function.

  * To use the `useReducer` Hook, we begin by importing the reducer and the `useReducer` Hook into the component `StudentList`:

    ```js
    import React, { useReducer } from 'react';
    import { reducer } from '../utils/reducers';
    ```

  * Then we use destructuring assignment with the `useReducer` Hook to extract the `state` and `dispatch()` function. Notice that we pass in the reducer function and an initial state:

    ```js
    const [state, dispatch] = useReducer(reducer, initialState);
    ```

  * Instead of calling the methods from inside components as we have before, now we will call `dispatch()`, which accepts an object that contains `type` and `payload` attributes.

  * In this activity, we will finish the implementation of the `useReducer` Hook in our app.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ What argument does the `useReducer` Hook accept?

  * 🙋 The `useReducer` Hook accepts an argument of the reducer function.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 10. Student Do: `useReducer` Hook (20 min)

* Break your students into pairs that will work together on this activity.

* Direct students to the activity instructions found in `05-useReducer/README.md`, which are also shown here:

  ```md
  # 📖 Implement useReducer for a Component

  Work with a partner to implement the following user story:

  * As a developer, I want to use a Hook to define and respond to actions in my app, allowing me to have better control over complex state changes.

  ## Setup

  Before you begin, copy the `src` directory from the activity folder into `00-practice-app`.

  ## Acceptance Criteria

  * It is done when I have used `studentContext` to provide the initial state for my reducer.

  * It is done when I have implemented `onClick` actions for adding and removing students using `dispatch()`.

  * It is done when the component renders correctly without errors in the browser.

  ## 📝 Notes

  Refer to the documentation:

  [React Docs on useReducer](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#usereducer)

  ---

  ## 💡 Hints

  * What arguments do `useReducer()` and `dispatch()` expect?

  ## 🏆 Bonus

  If you have completed this activity, work through the following challenge with your partner to further your knowledge:

  * How would you explain Redux to a friend or family member?

  Use [Google](https://www.google.com) or another search engine to research this.
  ```

* While breaking everyone into groups, be sure to remind students and the rest of the instructional staff that questions on Slack or otherwise are welcome and will be handled. It's a good way for your team to prioritize students who need extra help.

### 11. Instructor Review: `useReducer` Hook (10 min)

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ How comfortable do you feel with the `useReducer` Hook? (Poll via Fist to Five, Slack, or Zoom)

* Assure students that we will cover the solution to help solidify their understanding. If questions remain, remind them to use Office Hours to get extra help!

* Use the prompts and talking points (🔑) below to review the following key points:

  * ✔️ `dispatch()`

  * ✔️ `action.payload`

  * ✔️ `useReducer`

* Open `src/components/StudentList.js` in your IDE and explain the following:

  * We first need to import the `useReducer` Hook from React to complete this activity.

  * We also need to import the action types and the `reducer`:

    ```js
    import React, { useReducer } from 'react';
    import {
      ADD_STUDENT,
      REMOVE_STUDENT,
      SET_STUDENT_NAME,
      SET_STUDENT_MAJOR,
    } from '../utils/actions';
    import reducer from '../utils/reducers';
    ```

  * Also in this file, the custom `useStudentContext` Hook is being imported from `'../utils/StudentContext'`:

    ```js
    import { useStudentContext } from '../utils/StudentContext';
    ```

  * To use the `useReducer` Hook, first we have to consider the `reducer` and `initialState` objects that need to be passed. The reducer might be easy to remember (because it is called `reducer`), but `initialState` might be tricky to remember.

  * The custom Hook `useStudentContext` will return `students` and `majors`, which are exactly what we need for the initial state object. So we set the initial state's value to exactly the return value of `useStudentContext`:

    ```js
    const initialState = useStudentContext();
    ```

  * Now that we know what to pass, we initialize the `useReducer` Hook.

  * 🔑  Remember that `useReducer` returns `state` and a `dispatch()` function:

    ```js
    const [state, dispatch] = useReducer(reducer, initialState);
    ```

  * Next, we refactor the `students` array such that it pulls from the global state rather than a local variable.

  * To do this, we add `state.students` in place of `students`:

    ```js
    return (
      <div>
        {state.students ? ( ... )
      </div>
    ```

  * We do the same for the `map()` methods:

    ```jsx
    {state.students.map((student) => ( ... ) }
    ```

  * 🔑 Finally, to make this app work, we have to manipulate state using the `dispatch()` function. This method expects an object with `type` and `payload` attributes:

    ```jsx
    <button
      type="button"
      onClick={() => {
        console.log('🚀 StudentList.js: Dispatched remove!');
        return dispatch({
          type: REMOVE_STUDENT,
          payload: student.id,
        });
      }}
    >
    ```

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ What does the `useReducer` Hook return?

  * 🙋 The `useReducer` Hook returns a state object and a `dispatch()` function.

  * ☝️ What can we do if we don't completely understand this?

  * 🙋 We can refer to supplemental material, read the [React Docs on useReducer](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#usereducer), and attend Office Hours to ask for help.

* Answer any questions before ending the class.

### 12. Recap & Promote Additional Resources (5 min)

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ What do you think you absolutely need to know to succeed at the Challenge?

  * 🙋 We must know how to search for information that will help us implement Redux in our application, whether that be the official Redux documentation or other resources.

  * ☝️ What do you think is okay to not completely understand?

  * 🙋 All of it! The field of web development is very wide and rapidly evolving. Unless you choose to specialize, it is not necessary to know any one area completely to be successful.

  * ☝️ Why is it important to do as much of the lesson material prior to class as possible?

  * 🙋 It's important both to be fully prepared to start the Challenge and because it will prepare you for your future career as a web developer. We cover a lot of material in the boot camp. Lessons are intentionally designed to give each topic an optimal amount of depth and scope so that you have a solid foundation to build upon in future lessons. The skills you learn in the lessons are cutting-edge, real-world skills that you will use in your career as a full-stack web developer.

* Direct students to the additional resources available to them:

  * Reflection and Retrieval

  * Career Connection

  * Dessert Menu

### 13. Introduce Group Project (5 min)

* Announce the group projects, and explain the following:

  * This time, students will form the groups themselves. Keep them groups of 3-4. Help form the project groups for students who are having some trouble finding groups to join.

  * Encourage the groups to set up a time this weekend to brainstorm project ideas.

  * Project ideas will be approved by the instructor by next week's first virtual class in Module 23.

* Go over project requirements.

  * Add the [project requirements](../../01-Class-Content/22-State/04-Supplemental/Project-Requirements.md) to the student-facing repo and review them briefly. They are shown here for your reference:

  ```md
  # Project Requirements

  * Use React for the front end.

  * Use GraphQL with a Node.js and Express.js server.

  * Use MongoDB and the Mongoose ODM for the database.

  * Use queries and mutations for retrieving, adding, updating, and deleting data.

  * Be deployed using Heroku (with data).

  * Have a polished UI.

  * Be responsive.

  * Be interactive (i.e., accept and respond to user input).

  * Include authentication (using JWT).

  * Protect sensitive API key information on the server.

  * Have a clean repository that meets quality coding standards (file structure, naming conventions, best practices for class and id naming conventions, indentation, high-quality comments, etc.).

  * Have a high-quality README (with unique name, description, technologies used, screenshot, and link to deployed application).

  Finally, you must add your project to the portfolio that you created in Module 20.

  You should also consider the following suggestions to help your project stand out.

  ## CSS Styling

  Instead of using a CSS library such as Bootstrap, consider one of the following suggestions:

  * Look into the concept of **CSS-in-JS**, which abstracts CSS to the component level, using JavaScript to describe styles in a declarative and maintainable way. Some popular libraries include [styled-components](https://styled-components.com/) and [Emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction).

  * Try using a component library, such as [Semantic UI](https://semantic-ui.com/), [Chakra UI](https://chakra-ui.com/), or [Ant Design](https://ant.design/).

  * Create all the CSS for your application using only CSS.

  Ultimately, it doesn't matter which of these options you choose; your project just needs to look professional and be mobile-friendly.

  ## Payment Platform

  Consider integrating the Stripe payment platform. If you don’t create an e-commerce application, you could use Stripe to enable your site to accept charitable donations.

  ## Bonus

  Although this is not a requirement for your project, see if you can also implement functionality to meet the following minimum requirements of a PWA:

  * Uses a web manifest

  * Uses a service worker for offline functionality

  * Is installable

  **More details about the project will be provided in the lessons for Module 23 in Canvas.**
  ```

* Let the students know detailed project information will be given in the async material for Module 23.

### 14. End

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete this [anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17).

---
© 2022 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
