# 23.1 Virtual Class: Project 03

## Overview

In today's virtual class, students will review Project 03 requirements. Students will also use this time to work on their final group projects.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will have done the following:

* Created groups for the final project.

* Submitted a project proposal for feedback.

* Created a project repo that is set up with linting and group members as collaborators.

## Instructor Notes

* Students will begin work on their final projects. These projects are student-driven; they will be responsible for forming their own groups, brainstorming project ideas, and developing a full-stack MERN app.

* Encourage students to start forming groups and brainstorming ideas for their apps, and be prepared to help anyone who is struggling to find a group or project idea. Leverage the TAs to help any groups lagging behind during the lesson. We want to give students as much time to brainstorm project ideas as possible.

* If students need a refresher on deploying their project to Heroku, refer them to [Deploy with Heroku and MongoDB Atlas](https://coding-boot-camp.github.io/full-stack/mongodb/deploy-with-heroku-and-mongodb-atlas) on the Full-Stack Blog.

* There are occasional circumstances, such as an illness or a personal emergency, which might force a student to complete a group project on their own. In these circumstances, as the instructor, you will meet with the student and SSM to determine if completing the project independently is the best path forward. If it is, you will share adjusted project requirements and a grading rubric with the student.

## Time Tracker

| Start  | #  | Activity Name                       | Duration |
|---     |--- |---                                  |---       |
| 6:30PM | 0  | Office Hours                        | 0:30     |
| 7:00PM | 1  | Instructor Do: Introduce Project    | 0:15     |
| 7:15PM | 2  | Student Do: Project Groups          | 0:15     |
| 7:30PM | 3  | Student Do: Project Brainstorming   | 0:30     |
| 8:00PM | 4  | Student Do: Project Work            | 1:00     |
| 9:00PM | 5  | END                                 | 0:00     |

---

## Class Instructions

### 1. Instructor Do: Introduce Project (15 min)

* Welcome students to class. Praise students for making it to their final group projects.

* Assure the class that they'll have plenty of time to brainstorm project ideas before submitting their proposals for review by the end of class.

* Open the [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ClrBuo-QzQEiw5g4y7GYuUSWcNVDOmlErTN8gbLWy3A/edit?usp=sharing) and follow these prompts on their corresponding slides:

  * **Project Requirements**: Discuss the project requirements outlined in the slide deck.

  * **Presentation Requirements**: Discuss the presentation requirements outlined in the slide deck.

  * **Project Metrics**: The projects will be evaluated on concept, design, functionality, collaboration, and presentation, as well as the quality of the repository and whether or not the application is deployed.

* Answer any questions about project requirements.

### 2. Students Do: Project Groups (15 min)

* For the final project, students will choose their own group members. Each group should have three students.

* Direct students to spend this time forming project groups. Help anyone who is struggling to find a group.

* Ask students to provide their proposed group to the instructor for approval via Slack.

### 3. Student Do: Project Brainstorming (30 min)

* Direct students to begin brainstorming with their group members to identify project ideas and project designs, and research which new library, package, or technology they can use that hasn't been discussed yet.

* At your discretion, leverage TAs and host "workshops" to help steer groups in the right direction.

* Use the following talking points to guide and encourage the students:

  * Many of you might only have a rough idea of what your project will consist of. This is a good opportunity to eliminate unrealistic ideas and get a good sense of what is feasible.

  * Be cautious of underestimating the amount of time that features will take to implement. Try thinking of the MVP for each idea, and try to choose the idea that excites your group and seems doable in the time you have.

* Remind students and the rest of the instructional staff that questions on Slack or otherwise are welcome and will be handled. It's a good way for your team to prioritize students who need extra help.

### 4. Student Do: Project Work (60 min)

* Direct students to begin working with their groups to finalize project ideas and start working on the MVP.

* Make sure students create a new project repo, protect the `main` branch, and invite the other group members as collaborators.

* Be sure to remind students and the rest of the instructional staff that questions on Slack or otherwise are welcome and will be handled. It's a good way for your team to prioritize students who need extra help.

* Students should expect to submit initial project idea proposals by the end of class today.

### 5. End

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete this [anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17).

---
© 2022 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
