# Module 23 Virtual Class (Recommended): Project 3

## Overview 

In today's recommended virtual class, students will review Project 3 requirements. Students will also use this time to work on their group projects. 

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will be able to:

* Finalize project idea

* Delegate project tasks amongst group members

* Begin assigning issues or tasks 

## Instructor Notes

* In today's class you will go over the project requirements and help students finalize their project ideas. 

* If students need a refresher on deploying their project to Heroku, refer them to Module 21 Lesson 6 in Canvas.

## Time Tracker 

| Start  | #  | Activity Name                               | Duration |
|---     |--- |---                                          |---       |
| 7:00PM | 1  | Introduction                                | 0:05     |
| 7:05PM | 2  | Everyone Do: Review Project Requirements    | 0:10     |
| 7:15PM | 3  | Recap                                       | 0:05     |
| 7:20PM | 4  | Work on Group Project                       | 1:10     |
| 8:30PM | 5  | Office Hours                                | 0:30     |
| 9:00PM | 6  | End                                         | N/A      |

## Slide Deck

[23.1 Project 3](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ClrBuo-QzQEiw5g4y7GYuUSWcNVDOmlErTN8gbLWy3A/edit?usp=sharing)

---

## Class Instructions 

### 1. Introduction (5 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Direct students to post individual questions in the Zoom chat to be addressed by TAs and/or at the end of class.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ How are you feeling about your progress so far?

    * 🙋 Your journey towards becoming a web developer in this course is complete! Congratulations on reaching this monumental milestone!

    * ☝️ How comfortable do you feel with this project? 

    * 🙋 Let's do "fist to five" together. If you are not feeling confident, hold up a fist (0). If you feel very confident, hold up an open hand (5).


### 2. Everyone Do: Review Project Requirements (10 min)

* Use the [Project 3 Slide Deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ClrBuo-QzQEiw5g4y7GYuUSWcNVDOmlErTN8gbLWy3A/edit?usp=sharing) to review the project requirements:

  * **Project Requirements**: 

  * **Presentation Requirements**:

  * **Project Metrics**: 

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next section.

### 3. Recap (5 min)

* Direct the students to start working on their group projects:

    * You can now use the remaining time to work on your projects with your group. 

    * Be sure to finalize your project idea, delegate project tasks amongst your group members, and begin assigning issues or tasks using your project management tool of choice.
    
    * **Remember** next week's Required class is when everyone will present their projects, so be ready for that!

    * If you need direction on deploying your application to Heroku, you can refer to Module 21 Lesson 6 in Canvas.

### 4. Everyone Do: Work on Group Project (70 min)

* Students will work on final projects for the remainder of class.

### 5. Office Hours (30 min)

* Announce Office Hours and invite students to stay and continue working on their project while they have live support from instructional staff. 

### 6. End

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete [this anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17)

---
© 2020 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand.  Confidential and Proprietary.  All Rights Reserved.