# 08.1 Virtual Class: Project 1

## Overview

In this class, students will outline their project presentations and complete work on their projects.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will be able to:

* Outline their project presentation.

* Make progress towards finalizing the MVP of their project.

## Instructor Notes

* No classroom instruction today.

* This is the last day students have to work on their projects in class.

* Once again, your students' success after the boot camp depends on the quality of their projects. Their presentations compose much of this quality and students need to think about how to communicate the development process of their apps if they hope to impress interviewers with their experience.

* Students must have a deployed project by presentation day, so encourage students to work on deploying their projects in class today. Since you can always update deployed projects, it is recommended that students deploy early on and update their live version with every new feature.

* Make sure students spend at least a half-hour outlining their presentations.

* Prioritize working with groups that may be at risk of failure, i.e: unable to deploy a functional application.

* Share the [Project Presentation Template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10QaO9KH8HtUXj__81ve0SZcpO5DbMbqqQr4iPpbwKks/edit?usp=sharing) with students to help them prepare for their presentations in the next class. Inform students that they will have 10 minutes to present and must be prepared to answer questions.

* In the next module, students will start using Node.js. Advise the students to have Node.js installed before that module begins. Direct students to the [Node.js installation guide on The Full-Stack Blog](https://coding-boot-camp.github.io/full-stack/nodejs/how-to-install-nodejs).

## Time Tracker

| Start  | #   | Activity Name                     | Duration |
| ------ | --- | ----------------------------      | -------- |
| 6:30PM | 0   | Office Hours                      | 0:30     |
| 7:00PM | 1   | Instructor Do: Welcome            | 0:05     |
| 7:05PM | 2   | Student Do: Outline Presentations | 0:30     |
| 7:35PM | 3   | Student Do: Project Work          | 1:25     |
| 9:00PM | 4   | End                               | N/A      |

---

## Class Instructions

### 1. Instructor Do: Welcome (5 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Inform them that today is the last class time to work on their projects in their groups. They will start outlining their project presentations in preparation for the next class.

* Answer any questions before proceeding.

### 2. Student Do: Outline Presentations (30 mins)

* Announce that students have the next half-hour to outline their presentations. Share the [Project Presentation Template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_u8TKy5zW5UlrVQVnyDEZ0unGI2tjQPDEpA0FNuBKAw/edit?usp=sharing) with them.

* They should consider:

  * The structure of their presentation

  * The key messages they need to show

  * The details that they should _avoid_ reviewing (they only have 10 minutes to talk)

* Let students know that the presentation of any project to an audience must flow like a story. Their narrative should open on a conflict, hint at a potential resolution for that problem, depict the steps taken to resolve the issue, and finally end on the resolution of the conflict with an eye toward the future. In other words:

  * What problem does their app focus on?

  * How does their app solve this problem at a high-level?

  * What steps did they take to build the app?

* Let students know that it's important to show their app running and solving the problem that began this story.

* While the groups organize their presentations, offer to answer any questions about presentation day.

* About 10 minutes in, make sure that students aren't coding. If it looks like they are, just gently ask how they're progressing so far with their presentation outline.

### 3. Student Do: Project Work

* Direct students to continue to work with their groups on their projects while instructional staff make themselves available for assistance.

* Visit each group and answer any questions they may have about coding their app or presenting in the next class.

* Some students may feel nervous with their deadline approaching. Reassure them that they have solid project ideas and that they'll be fine as long as they prepare for their presentation.

* A few groups might not seem poised to finish their apps on time. Tell them to drop any undeveloped and unnecessary features. Even if they can't meet their proposed goal, they should still present a functional app in the next class. Add in that they can talk about the dropped features as planned updates.

* In the next module, students will start using Node.js. Remind them to install it prior to class using the [Node.js installation guide on The Full-Stack Blog](https://coding-boot-camp.github.io/full-stack/nodejs/how-to-install-nodejs).

* Answer any questions before ending class.

### 4. End

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete [this anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17).

---
© 2021 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
