# 08.2 Virtual Class: Project 01

## Overview

In this class, students will present their projects to their peers.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will be able to:

* Demonstrate deployed projects.

* Explain the technical implementation of their projects.

* Describe their individual roles and contributions to their projects.

## Instructor Notes

* Congratulate your class! This is a major milestone in their journey.

* Project presentations are a rare opportunity for students to practice speaking about technical topics in front of an audience of peers.

* Limit presentations to 10 minutes: 7-8 minutes for the presentation itself, followed by 2-3 minutes for Q & A. This will ensure that every group presents and allow padding for transitions between groups.

* Prior to class, prepare a list of questions to ask each group to encourage discussion.

* Prior to class, and during presentations if necessary, collaborate with your TAs to prepare a slide deck of superlative awards for groups. Refer to this [example of a superlative award slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fJGzsclaQ5TKBk3EnL7Gc-bg1ijSGM6_oB1gvpKYnZE/edit?usp=sharing).

* In the next module, students will start using Node.js. Remind them to install it before coming to the next class! Direct students to the [Node.js installation guide on The Full-Stack Blog](https://coding-boot-camp.github.io/full-stack/nodejs/how-to-install-nodejs).

* Remind students that this module's career connection consists of updating their portfolio with this project as well as updating their GitHub profile, resume, and LinkedIn profile.

* You will need to demonstrate the Module 09 Challenge at the end of class. Familiarize yourself with it before class.

## Office Hours

Use Office Hours to assist with any last minute debugging and deployment issues, or providing feedback on presentations.

## Time Tracker

| Start  | #   | Activity Name                  | Duration |
| ------ | --- | ----------------------------   | -------- |
| 6:30PM | 0   | Office Hours                   | 0:30     |
| 7:00PM | 1   | Instructor Do: Welcome         | 0:05     |
| 7:05PM | 2   | Student Do: Presentations      | 1:45     |
| 8:50PM | 3   | Recap & Promote Resources      | 0:05     |
| 8:55PM | 4   | Introduce Upcoming Challenge   | 0:05     |
| 9:00PM | 5   | End                            | N/A      |

---

## Class Instructions

### 1. Instructor Do: Welcome (5 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Address any last-minute questions before presentations.

### 2. Student Do: Presentations

* Project groups will have 10 minutes to present their project and have a brief Q & A.

* If there aren't many questions, ask the group to explain how they built their application and encourage them to speak technically about some of their code.

* When all the presentations are done, present superlative awards and congratulate each group for accomplishing this huge milestone!

### 3. Recap & Promote Additional Resources (5 min)

* In the next class, students will start using Node.js. Remind them to install it before class using the [Node.js installation guide on The Full-Stack Blog](https://coding-boot-camp.github.io/full-stack/nodejs/how-to-install-nodejs).

* Direct students to the additional resources available to them:

  * Reflection and Retrieval

  * Career Connection

  * Dessert Menu

### 4. Introduce Upcoming Challenge (5 min)

* Navigate to `02-Challenge/Main` in your command line and run `node index.js` and demonstrate the following:

  * The upcoming Challenge is to create a command-line application that dynamically generates a professional README.md file from a user's input.

  * We are prompted for information about our project.

  * The application generates a Markdown file that we can use in our projects as a professional README file.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

  * ☝️ What are we learning?

  * 🙋 First, and most importantly, we are learning Node.js! We are also learning how to build an interactive command-line application.

  * ☝️ How does this project build on or extend previously learned material?

  * 🙋 We are already familiar with a few command-line applications, such as Git. Now we will learn how to create our own. We are also learning how to write server-side code.

  * ☝️ How does this project relate to your career goals?

  * 🙋 Node.js is a popular JavaScript runtime environment used for both front-end and back-end development.

* Answer any questions before ending class.

### 5. End

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete this [anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17).

---
© 2022 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
