# Module 17 Virtual Class (Required): Computer Science for JavaScript

## Overview 

In today's required virtual class, students will practice creating factory functions with closures, implement the Fibonacci algorithm using a linear approach, and use regex to match a username.


## Learning Objectives

By the end of class, students will be able to:

* Utilize factory functions

* Implement the Fibonacci algorithm using the linear approach

* Use regex to match the requirements for a username


## Instructor Notes 

* This week, students learned Computer Science fundamentals as they apply to JavaScript. It is heavier on concepts, but it will help them think like a developer and prepare them for interviews. 

* In fact, this last phase of the boot camp is more about being employer-ready, improving the skills they have already learned, and making their web applications more performant and efficient. Basically, students will focus on "Life after Boot Camp". 

* Be sure to prepare and read over the activities before your class begins. Try to anticipate any questions students may have.

* During activities, visit a few breakout rooms quietly and ask the group if they are comfortable with the activity and provide gentle tips to keep them on track.

* Factory functions are covered in Lesson 2 and the Fibonacci algorithm is covered in Lesson 5.

* Benchmarking is covered in Lesson 3 and in Lesson 5. It is the bonus activity for the `04-Fibonacci` activity, but it might take a lot of time to explain in class. So let the students who attempted the bonus know that you will go over the solution during Office Hours. 

* Although the students will only use the linear approach to code the Fibonacci algorithm, the recursive approach is included in the solution file for their reference.

* Regex was not covered in the async lessons, however it is the topic used in this week's Challenge. Students may struggle with the `05-Regex` activity because it is their first time seeing it, but encourage them to research online and use this activity as practice for their Challenge.

* Spend some time at the end of class to go over GitHub gists, which will be used for their Challenge.


## Office Hours

Encourage students to work on the remaining module algorithms during Office Hours. Review the algorithm solutions 5–10 minutes before class begins or during Office Hours after class.


## Time Tracker 

| Start  | #   | Activity Name                       | Duration |
| ------ | --- | ----------------------------        | -------- |
| 6:30PM | 0   | Office Hours                        | 0:30     |
| 7:00PM | 1   | Introduction                        | 0:10     |
| 7:10PM | 2   | Review Current Challenge            | 0:05     |
| 7:15PM | 3   | Instructor Demo: Factory Function   | 0:05     |
| 7:20PM | 4   | Student Do: Factory Function        | 0:15     |
| 7:35PM | 5   | Instructor Review: Factory Function | 0:10     |
| 7:45PM | 6   | Instructor Demo: Fibonacci          | 0:05     |
| 7:50PM | 7   | Student Do: Fibonacci               | 0:15     |
| 8:05PM | 8   | Instructor Review: Fibonacci        | 0:10     |
| 8:15PM | 9   | Instructor Demo: Regex              | 0:05     |
| 8:20PM | 10  | Student Do: Regex                   | 0:20     |
| 8:40PM | 11  | Instructor Review: Regex            | 0:10     |
| 8:50PM | 12  | Introduction to GitHub gist         | 0:05     |
| 8:55PM | 13  | Introduce Upcoming Challenge        | 0:05     |
| 9:00PM | 14  | Office Hours                        | 0:30     |
| 9:30PM | 15  | End                                 | N/A      |

---

## Class Instructions

### 1. Introduction (10 min)

* Welcome students to class.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ What did you learn this week? How would you explain it to your friends and family?

    * 🙋 We learned about some computer science concepts behind JavaScript, including performance measurement, data structures, and algorithms. We also practiced describing our problem-solving process through pseudocoding. We went over closures, factory functions, and event delegation. We are moving fast compared to traditional learners. It’s okay to feel overwhelmed as long as you don’t give up.

    * ☝️ Did anyone have an "Aha!" or "Eureka!" moment this week? When was it and why did things suddenly click for you? 

    * 🙋 Eureka moments happen when we try different approaches to a problem or change the way we're thinking about it.

    * ☝️ Did anyone feel stuck this week? How did you get unstuck?

    * 🙋 It's easy to get stuck when you're learning web development. It's important to learn how to get unstuck because it happens to the pros too. Rather than getting lost in search results, consult the tool's official documentation first. Then ask for help from instructional staff or your peers. Study groups are great because explaining your problems to someone else often reveals the solution. 


### 2. Review Current Challenge (5 min)

* This module is very different from the previous modules that the students are used to. Likewise, the challenge for this module is also very different. Instead of a coding activity, it is writing a GitHub gist explaining regex. Take some time to go over the challenge.

* Open the [README.md](../../01-Class-Content/17-CS/02-Challenge/README.md) for this week's challenge and go over the following:

    * This challenge is different from any other challenge you've done so far. That's because we want you to start thinking like a developer. A developer writes code, but they also write **about** code. 

    * This challenge is to create a gist on GitHub that will be a tutorial on regex. You will need to familiarize yourself with regex, so later in the class, we will do an activity on regex to help you understand and use it.

    * You will need to clone the starter code and modify the contents to create your tutorial on regex. The starter code is a template with a title, introductory paragraph, summary, and table of contents. The table of contents should link to sections of the tutorial that describe the functionality of each component in the regex. Be sure to rename the template to a unique name that describes your tutorial.

    * Although creating a gist is an easy, straight-forward task, we will go over it briefly at the end of class. It functions just like a repository, and you’ll use Markdown to create it, which you already know how to do! Gists can include code, images, links, and anything else you can include in a README.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ What recently acquired skills will help us build this challenge?

    * 🙋 Throughout this module, we not only learned about concepts and fundamentals, but we also practiced describing our problem-solving process. We just have to put that in writing now! It will take practice to clearly put your thinking process in writing, and we don't expect it to be perfect this first time around! But after completing this challenge, you should be able to get in the habit of writing technical walkthroughs about the different languages and skills you've learned so far in this boot camp. 

    * ☝️ How are these skills relevant to a career in web development?

    * 🙋 Whether it is in writing, like a tech blog, or in speech, like during a technical interview, the ability to clearly explain difficult technical concepts is an important skill to have as a developer. You should be able to clearly explain and communicate technical knowledge, whether it is talking about a project within your team at work or giving a presentation of your product in front of executives.

    * ☝️ How will this challenge improve your portfolio?

    * 🙋 It will show employers that we are capable of communicating technical knowledge to others, which is a very valuable skill to have in the workplace!

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 3. Instructor Demo: Factory Function (5 min) 

* Navigate to `03-Factory-Function/Solved` in your command line and run `node index.js` to demonstrate the following:

    * 🔑 We see an invitation to drink a type of beverage, `Would you like a coffee?`

    * 🔑 We see the price of the beverage, `The price of this coffee is $6.`

    * 🔑 We see the origin of the beverage, `This coffee is from Kenya!`

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Where have we used this before?

    * 🙋 In Lesson 2, when we were going over closures, we created objects using factory functions. More specifically, we created a factory function called `tiger` that contained a variable named `noise` that returned an object literal which contained the method `sound`. 

    * ☝️ How does this activity equip us for the challenge?

    * 🙋 Although the challenge is about creating a tutorial specifically on regex, being able to explain and clearly communicate difficult topics, such as closures and factory function, will help you with the challenge. 

    * ☝️ How would we build this?

    * 🙋 We need to create a factory function that will have access to the `type`, `price`, and `origin` variables of the beverage and return an object literal that will print out the beverage information in the console.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 4. Student Do: Factory Function (15 min) 

* Divide students into breakout rooms.

* Direct students to the activity instructions found in `03-Factory-Function/README.md`.

```md
# Factory Function

In this activity, you will create a factory function that will print out the type, price, and origin of a beverage.

## Instructions

* Open the [index.js](Unsolved/index.js) file and do the following:

  * Create 3 variables for the `type`, `price`, and `origin` of the beverage and assign them to values of your choice.

  * Return an object literal which contains the methods `product`, `amount`, and `place`. 

    * `product()` will print an invitation to drink the `type` of beverage, i.e. "Would you like a coffee?"

    * `amount()` will print out the `price` of the beverage, i.e. "The price of this coffee is $6."

    * `place()` will print out the `origin` of the beverage, i.e. "This coffee is from Kenya!"

  * Invoke the methods in order to print out all of the messages in the console.
```


### 5. Instructor Review: Factory Function  (10 min) 

* Bring students back from breakout rooms. 

* Use the prompts and talking points below to review the following key (🔑) points:

    * ✔️ Return object literal

    * ✔️ Invoke `product()`, `amount()`, `place()`

* Open `03-Factory-Function/Solved/index.js` in your IDE and explain the following: 

    * First we need to create three variables for the `type`, `price`, and `origin` of the beverage. You can assign them to values of your choice.

    ```js
    const type = 'coffee';
    const price = 6;
    const origin = 'Kenya';
    ```

    * 🔑 Next, we need to return an object literal which contains the methods `product()`, `amount()`, and `place()`. Each method will print out a message about the beverage. Notice how they have access to the variables we created above!

    ```js
    return {
        product: function() {
        console.log(`Would you like a ${type}?`);
        },
        amount: function() {
        console.log(`The price of this ${type} is $${price}.`);
        },
        place: function() {
        console.log(`This ${type} is from ${origin}!`);
        }
    };
    ```

    * 🔑 Finally, we need to invoke the methods `product()`, `amount()`, and `place()`.

    ```js
    drink.product();
    drink.amount();
    drink.place();
    ```

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ In what ways are using factory functions better than using classes?

    * 🙋 Both behave similarly and can create objects but use different patterns. The OOP pattern needs to use keywords like `new` and `this` which aren't intuitive. Always needing to remember to add the `new` keyword for object creation can also lead to errors. Different errors with `this` due to context changes can lead to bugs. The factory function, on the other hand, has no need of these constructs and looks much more like straight forward functions we are used to in JavaScript.

    * ☝️ What can you do if you don't completely understand this?

    * 🙋 We can refer to Lesson 2, read this article on [JavaScript Factory Functions vs Constructor Functions vs Classes](https://medium.com/javascript-scene/javascript-factory-functions-vs-constructor-functions-vs-classes-2f22ceddf33e), and stick around for office hours to ask for help.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 6. Instructor Demo: Fibonacci  (5 min) 

* In Lesson 5, students were introduced to the Fibonacci sequence, a common algorithm question in the interview process. They learned how to pseudocode the steps they would take to code this. In this activity, they will actually implement it.

* Navigate to `05-Fibonacci/Solved` in your command line and run `node fibonacci.js` to demonstrate the following:

    * 🔑 We can see `55` printed in the console. 

* Open `05-Fibonacci/Unsolved/fibonacci.js` in your IDE and show the following:

    * 🔑 In Lesson 5, we pseudocoded both the recursive and linear approaches to coding the Fibonacci algorithm. For this activity, we will only attempt the linear approach. 

    * You can see that when given the number `10`, the function will return the value at that point in the sequence, which is `55`.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Where have we used this before?

    * 🙋 We learned how to pseudocode in Lesson 5 using the Fibonacci sequence. 

    * ☝️ How does this activity equip us for the challenge?

    * 🙋 Pseudocoding an algorithm problem is one way to communicate your thinking process as you work through the algorithm. In the challenge, you will be doing the same thing, except in writing.

    * ☝️ How would we build this?

    * 🙋 We need to think back on the logical process we took when we pseudocoded this and actually put it into code.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 7. Student Do: Fibonacci  (15 min) 

* Divide students into breakout rooms.

* Direct students to the activity instructions found in `04-Fibonacci/README.md`.

```md
# Fibonacci

In this activity, you will actually implement the classic Fibonacci algorithm that you pseudocoded in Lesson 5. Remember that the Fibonacci sequence adds the previous two numbers to create the next number. 

## Instructions

* Open the [fibonacci.js](Unsolved/fibonacci.js) file. 

* Create a function that, when given a number, returns the value at that point in the sequence using the **linear approach**.

  * Start the sequence at 1.

* To check your code, run `node fibonacci.js` in your terminal and you should see `55` printed in the console.

## Bonus

* Benchmark your solution. 

  * Remember to run `npm install benchmark` in your `Unsolved/` folder. 
  
  * Create a `index.js` file and require `benchmark` along with your `linear` module from `fibonacci.js`.
```


### 8. Instructor Review: Fibonacci  (10 min) 

* Bring students back from breakout rooms. 

* Use the prompts and talking points below to review the following key (🔑) points:

    * ✔️ Create an array

    * ✔️ `for` loop

    * ✔️ Return the last item

* Open `04-Fibonacci/Solved/fibonacci.js` in your IDE and explain the following: 

    * We are only going to use the linear approach for this exercise. But if you want to see the recursive approach, it will be included in the solution code.

    * 🔑 First, we create an array with the first two numbers of the sequence.

    ```js
    let arr = [1, 1];
    ```

    * 🔑 The next number in the array will be at index `2` so we need to loop from `2` to the number requested. We can do that with a `for` loop. We will add to the array the sum of the previous two numbers in the array.

    ```js
    for (let i = 2; i <= num; i++) {
        arr.push(arr[i - 2] + arr[i - 1]);
    }
    ```

    * 🔑 Finally, when we reach the point in the array of the given number, we stop the loop and return that number, which is the last number in the array.

    ```js
    return arr[num - 1];
    ```

    * As for the bonus, in Lesson 3 and Lesson 5, we learned how to benchmark our solution to get an average performance measurement. For the sake of class time, we will go over the solution to the bonus during Office Hours.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ Why do interviewers love asking algorithm questions?

    * 🙋 For the interviewer, it's a good way to see how you approach an isolated problem. Most of these problems will have efficient and inefficient solutions. The key to being able to recognize and address those inefficiencies is to practice. That is why we have you practice weekly algorithms. Pseudocoding is a another great strategy. The interviewer will appreciate that you can articulate your thoughts. Sometimes, they might not even care to see a concrete solution; they just want to hear you talk through it. This week's challenge will help you practice communicating technical knowledge.

    * ☝️ What can you do if you don't completely understand this?

    * 🙋 We can refer to Lesson 5, read this article on [Common JavaScript Algorithm Interview Questions, Explained](https://medium.com/better-programming/common-javascript-algorithm-interview-questions-explained-68d8c4186270), and stick around for office hours to ask for help.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 9. Instructor Demo: Regex  (5 min) 

* Regex was not covered in the async lessons. However, it is the topic used in this week's Challenge. Students may struggle with this activity because it is their first time seeing regex, but encourage them to research online and use this activity as practice for their Challenge.

* Navigate to [RegExr](https://regexr.com/) in your browser and demonstrate the following:

    * 🔑 Regex is used to find patterns in text.

    * 🔑 Here we see a paragraph of text, and on top of the screen there is an Expression. This expression is looking for all words that start with a capital letter. The words that match that expression are highlighted.

    * 🔑 In the left-hand menu, there is a link to RegEx Reference, which you can use to build your own regex. 

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ How does this activity equip us for the challenge?

    * 🙋 This will familiarize ourselves with regex so that we can write a tutorial about it for the challenge.

    * ☝️ How would we build this?

    * 🙋 We need to understand the different components of the expression so that it captures exactly what we are searching for.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 10. Student Do: Regex  (20 min) 

* Divide students into breakout rooms.

* Direct students to the activity instructions found in `05-Regex/README.md`.

```md
# Regex

In this activity, you will write a regex (regular expression) to find certain patterns of characters within a string to validate a username. This activity will help you understand and practice using regex in order for you to succeed in this week's Challenge.

## Instructions

* Open the [regex.md](Unsolved/regex.md) file. 

* Create a regex that fulfills the following requirements for a username:

  * can contain any lowercase letter between a-z

  * can contain any number between 0-9

  * can contain an underscore or hyphen

  * is between 3 - 16 characters long

* You can use [RegExr](https://regexr.com/) to test out your regex.

  * In the `Text` section, type a username that does fulfill the requirements, i.e. `janedoe_123`.

  * In the `Expression` section, test out your regex that will match that username. You will know your regex is correct if it shows a match.

  * You can also test it out by changing the `Text` to a username that does NOT follow the requirements, i.e. `JaneDoe_123`. Notice it will say "No match" if your regex is correct.

## Hint(s)

* Use the "RegEx Reference" section on [RegExr](https://regexr.com/) to familiarize yourself with the patterns to make your regex.
```


### 11. Instructor Review: Regex  (10 min) 

* Bring students back from breakout rooms. 

* Use the prompts and talking points below to review the following key (🔑) points:

    * ✔️ `^` and `$`

    * ✔️ `[]`

    * ✔️ `{}`

* Open `05-Regex/Solved/regex.md` in your IDE and explain the following: 

    * There are many components involved in this expression. Here is the breakdown of each of those components.

    * 🔑 First, we use `^` to match the beginning of a string and `$` to match the end of the string

    ```regex
    /^   $/
    ```

    * 🔑 Then we use the `[]` to enclose the types of characters we are matching. In our case, that's any lowercase letter between `a-z`, any number between `0-9`, underscore `_`, and a hyphen `-`.

    ```regex
    [a-z0-9_-]
    ```

    * 🔑 Finally we use a quantifier `{}` to specify that we want it to be between 3-16 characters long.

    ```regex
    {3, 16}
    ```
    
* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ What can you do if you don't completely understand this?

    * 🙋 Finding resources online is an excellent skill to have as a developer because we will always be learning about new (or old) technologies and we won't always have someone to ask! 
    
    * We can also play around with tools like [RegExr](https://regexr.com/) to figure out what each component does in a regex.

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.


### 12. Introduction to GitHub gist (5 min)

* For this challenge, students will create a gist instead of creating a repository on GitHub. Although it is new to the students, reassure them that it is easy and not so different from creating README markdown files that they are used to creating.

* Navigate to the [gist home page](https://gist.github.com/) and demonstrate the following:

    * After you have cloned the starter code, sign in to GitHub and navigate to the [gist home page](https://gist.github.com/).

    * Type in the name and description of your tutorial.

    * Insert the starter code into the gist text box.

    * Finally, click the `Create public gist` button to create your gist. It's that simple! Now you can edit the starter code to create your tutorial.

* Direct students to the additional resources available to them:

    * Reflection and Retrieval

    * Career Connection

    * Dessert Menu

### 13. Introduce Upcoming Challenge (5 min)

* Navigate to `01-Class-Content/18-NoSQL/02-Challenge/Master` from the command line and run `node server.js`.

* Open Insomnia Core and demonstrate the following:

    * You are going to build an API for a social network using a NoSQL database, MongoDB.

    * When we make a GET request for users and thoughts, we can see the data displayed in JSON.

    * We can also make POST, PUT, and DELETE requests for user and thoughts.

    * We can also create and delete reactions to thoughts, as well as add and remove friends from a user's friend list.

* Ask the class the following questions (☝️) and call on students for the answers (🙋):

    * ☝️ What are we learning?

    * 🙋 You are learning about the popular noSQL database system, MongoDB, as well as the Mongoose ODM.

    * ☝️ How does this project build off or extend previously learned material?

    * 🙋 We are creating a Node application using Express.

    * ☝️ How does this project relate to your career goals?

    * 🙋 Even though SQL is the most widely known and used database system, the surge of popularity in JavaScript in recent years led to the development of noSQL databases like MongoDB. Therefore knowing how to use both SQL and noSQL databases will make you an even stronger full-stack developer. 

* Answer any questions before proceeding to the next activity.

### 14. Office Hours (30 min)

* Announce Office Hours and encourage students to stay on the Zoom and start the challenge while they have live support from instructional staff. 

* If some students attempted the bonus of the `04-Fibonacci` activity, you can go over the solution with them now.

* Open `04-Fibonacci/Solved/fibonacci.js` in your IDE and explain the following: 

    * This solution code includes the linear approach we did in class, along with the recursive approach. Comment out the `console.log()` lines because we will generate a random number to use for our benchmarking purposes.

    ```js
    // console.log(linear(10));
    // console.log(recursive(10));
    ```

    * 🔑 We need to export these functions in order to use them in the `index.js` file we're about to create.

    ```js
    module.exports = { recursive, linear };
    ```

* Open `04-Fibonacci/Solved/index.js` in your IDE and explain the following: 

    * 🔑 First, we run `npm install benchmark` in our directory. Then we create an `index.js` file and require the `benchmark` package. We also bring in the two functions from `fibonacci.js`.

    ```js
    const Benchmark = require('benchmark');
    const { recursive, linear } = require('./fibonacci');
    ```

    * 🔑 In order to benchmark our solution, we will generate a random number.

    ```js
    const num = Math.floor(Math.random() * 10 + 1);
    console.log(`Using the number ${num}`);
    ```

    * 🔑 Finally we set up our benchmark. We will add both the recursive and linear functions. When it is complete, it will print out the average performance measurement for each.

    ```js
    const suite = new Benchmark.Suite();

    suite
    .add('recursive approach', function() {
        recursive(num);
    })
    .add('linear approach', function() {
        linear(num);
    })
    .on('complete', function() {
        this.forEach(result =>
        console.log(
            `${result.name} averaged ${result.stats.mean * 1000} milliseconds.`
        )
        );
    })
    .run();
  ```

### 15. End 

How did today’s lesson go? Your feedback is important. Please take 5 minutes to complete [this anonymous survey](https://forms.gle/3LozVjherGH83aG17).

---
© 2020 Trilogy Education Services, LLC, a 2U, Inc. brand. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
